# Section: CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE

It gives me a great pleasure in welcoming you to Vivekanandha Educational Institutions in this new academic year.

Vivekanandha Educational Institutions have evolved a unique educational programme blending futuristic needs with developmental skills that are essential for students of higher and professional education. With our state-of-the-art infrastructure, the students will be trained in proficient work culture and in the end, they emerge as efficient professionals that the industry desires to have.

Higher education has an independent as well as instrumental value, i.e., the purpose of higher and professional education must not only to rationalize the attitudes of the students but also to impart knowledge and improve their professional skills. Quality education should be oriented towards national development that aims at training the younger generation in life skills, self-reliance, personality development, community service and social integration. Vivekanandha Educational Institutions have inherited these principles which promise to give our students a unique opportunity to develop knowledge and hone their skills.

I wish you the very best in all your future endeavours.

---

# Section: ANGAMMAL EDUCATIONAL TRUST KRISHNA EDUCATIONAL & CHARITABLE TRUST RABINDHARANATH TAGORE EDUCATIONAL CHARITABLE TRUST

"Vidhya Rathna" Professor Dr. M. Karunanithi, B.Pharm., M.S., Ph.D., D.Litt., has made his name well-known far and wide. He is an Educationist, a Philanthropist, a Chemist and an Industrialist. With his profound experience and unique vision, he established Angammal Educational Trust in 1987 and Krishna Educational and Charitable Trust in 2006. He took over Rabindharanath Tagore Educational Charitable Trust in 2010, which was started in the year 2002. He is the architect and driving force behind the temples of learning under the banner of the "VIVEKANANDHA EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS". He is modest in expression and meticulous in execution. He is full of lofty ideas and clear goals. He is also the founder of Allwin Laboratories and MKG Foods and Feeds. He possesses various attributes embellishing his personality and captains this cruise with a definite sense of direction and mission.

The Esteemed Chairman's selfless service combined with hardwork and determination to the cause of women's education has fetched him many coveted titles. For his contributions to women empowerment, he has been conferred with the honour "VIDHYA RATHNA" in 2007 by the World Friendship Council in United Arabic Emirates. The Hon'ble Vice Chancellors of Madras, Anna and Dr. M.G.R. Medical Universities have jointly conferred him a new title as "Achiever in Women Education". The Former Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Major General K.V. Krishna Rao, Former Governor of Tamilnadu and Assam Hon'ble Dr. Bishma Narayan Singh and Former Governor of Sikkim, Hon'ble Dr. V. Rama Rao jointly honoured him with a title "RASHTRIYA RATAN" and these titles for his achievements speak volumes of his greatness.

A renowned citizen of India, Professor Dr. M. Karunanithi was awarded "HIND RATTAN INTERNATIONAL AWARD" for his dedicated service rendered towards the noble cause of women education by NRI welfare society of India at London in 2008. In December 2008, he was awarded D.Litt., by the Tamil University, USA for his outstanding service rendered towards women's education. On 8th October 2009, Human Resource Research & Development Organization (HRRDO), Dharmapuri, presented the dignified "Dr. G. BHUJANGA RAO, I.A.S. AWARD" to our Chairman for his excellence in women's education. On 7th February 2010, Dr. N. Mahalingam, Chairman, Emeritus, NIA Educational Institutions, Pollachi honoured "THE KONGU NATTU SADHANAIYALAR AWARD" "BEST EDUPRENEUR - 2013 AWARD" by Times Group, "BHARATH EXCELLENCE AWARD" for the promotion of National Integration, "BEST EDUPRENEUR AWARD" by Rain Dropss Organization, Chennai, "GLOBAL ENTREPRENEUR AWARD" in 2019 by Global Entrepreneurs Grid (GEG) Bangalore, "BEST PHARMACIST AWARD" in 2023 by Indian Pharmaceutical Association ( Tamilnadu Branch ) to our Chairman Prof. Dr. M. Karunanithi.

## Subsection: THE CAMPUS

## Subsection: Tiruchengode Campus

Vivekanandha Educational Institutions are situated at Elayampalayam, Tiruchengode, Namakkal District of TamilNadu, on either side of the Erode - Namakkal state highway.

The Campus is 6 kms away from Tiruchengode, 26 kms from Erode, 30 Kms from Namakkal, 53 kms from Salem, 126 kms from Coimbatore. Nearest Railway Junction is Erode, Namakkal. The Airports nearer to our College are Salem, Coimbatore & Tiruchirappalli.

## Subsection: Sankari Campus

Vivekanandha Educational Institutions are situated at Veerachipalayam, Sankari, Salem District of TamilNadu, along Salem - Kovai Express highway.

The Campus is 5 kms away from Sankari, 20 kms from Erode, 10 Kms from Bhavani, 35 kms from Salem, 100 kms from Coimbatore. Nearest Railway Station is Sankari RS. Nearest Railway Junction is Erode. The Airports nearer to our College are Salem, Coimbatore & Tiruchirappalli.

On entering the campus, one would be enthralled by the beautiful lawns, plants with varieties of flower and huge multi-storied buildings. The natural atmosphere maintained in the campus provides a calm and serene atmosphere that is pleasant, healthy and stimulating in every sense.

Spread over more than 30,000,000 sq.ft. of built up space, the classrooms, libraries, laboratories and learning centers of Vivekanandha Educational Institutions have been designed with meticulous attention and thoughtful design and use of apace, making it truly world class. The vibrant interiors and exquisite finishing lend the college an ambience that is delightful and inspiring.

---

# Section: VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING FOR WOMEN ( AUTONOMOUS )

Vivekanandha College of Engineering for Women (VCEW) was established in the year 2001 with the objective of molding engineering graduates as the frontiers of knowledge and to serve the educational and technical needs of the society. The college is affiliated to Anna University, Chennai and approved by AICTE, New Delhi, Autonomous status was granted in the academic year 2013-2014 by UGC & Anna University. In addition, the college is accredited by NAAC with A++ Grade, All eligible departments are accredited by NBA. It is also accredited by TATA Consultancy Services. Sponsored center of excellence by IBM's "Centre of Academic Excellence for Data Science and Big Data Analytics", Intel and Dell "Al Skills Lab". Educating women, benefits the society as a whole. Our Engineering programs are to create, capable and efficient Engineers with emphasis on technology, management, knowledge, skills acquisition, collaborative learning and personality development. Awarded Best Women Engineering College in India-2017 by Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) Secured 4 Rank "Swachhta Ranking 2017 by Ministry of Human Resource Development, Govt. of India among the cleanest Higher Educational Institutions in the Country.

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

## Subsection: Undergraduate Programmes - 4 Years

* B.E. Computer Science and Engg.
* B.E. CSE - Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning*
* B.E. Electronics and Communication Engg.
* B.E. Electrical and Electronics Engg.
* B.E. Biomedical Engg.
* B.E. Civil Engg.
* B.Tech. Information Technology
* B.Tech. Biotechnology
* B.Tech. Agricultural Engg.

## Subsection: Integrated Programme - 5 Years

* M.Tech. Computer Science Engg*

## Postgraduate programmes - 2 Years

* M.E. Computer Science and Engg.
* M.E. VLSI Design
* M.E. Power Systems Engg.
* M.Tech. Biotechnology

## Subsection: Research Programmes

* Ph.D. - CSE/IT/ECE/EEE/BT/BME/AGRI
* AI & DS/CIVIL/MECH/ENGLISH/MATHS/PHYSICS/CHEMISTRY


## Subsection: DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
Computer Science and Engineering Department aims to create technocrats to compensate today's digital era. Department focuses on effective learning of students by integrating the technology with state-of-the-art teaching and modern equipments. It empowers students with sound knowledge in the computer science and allied areas to cater to the needs of the society. The department constantly interacts with the IT industry and continuously updates its curriculum with industry requirements to make the students able to walk out from the campus with great opportunities. Faculty or expertised in the domains of Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Internet of Things, Wireless Networks, Cyber Security etc., The Department is equipped with Digital Smart Class Room with Creates the Class Lectures as a Digital Content.

## Subsection: Career Prospects

The Computer Science and Engineering graduates will have opportunities in Various sections like software development, software testing, data analytics, web development, mobile application development hardware and networking. Our graduates have the ability to interact with their peers in other sectors and they are highly rated in their working environment. Being a successful woman of the society, they also contribute to the Socio-economic development of the country.

## Subsection: DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING

Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) focuses on wide array of research that spans generation of new technologies like 5G Cellular technology, Artificial Intelligence & Internet of Things (IOT), System on Chip & Robotics. The academic courses offered by the department are globally competitive. The curriculum & syllabi are structured to support students intellectual growth, skill acquisition & to bring their own thoughts in the world's next gleaming technological advancement. To meet the huge demand for competent engineer in electronic industries, we inculcate professional & ethical attitudes, effective communication, team spirit, multi disciplinary approach & ability to relate engineering issues in broader social context. Also we emphasize on project based learning from second year in order to acquire skills required for industries. Our vision is to impart value based education in Engineering & Technology to empower young women to meet the societal exigency with a global outlook. To empower the students learning experience, field visit to core companies & R&D organizations, expert lectures, value added courses etc., have been organized regularly. Anna University recognized Research Centre facility & separate research lab facility are available to carry out research. VLSI Design, Networking, Communication, Signal & Image Processing are the major research areas focused.

## Subsection: Career Prospects

A job in the chip industry is an ultimate to the career where the Electronics Engineer has an opportunity to work in Government Sectors include NCL, BSNL, BHEL, SAIL, ISRO, NIELIT, AAI & also in the premier companies like Intel, Infosys, IBM, Hexaware, Dell, Amazon, Hewlett-Packard (HP), Cognizant Technology Solutions (CTS), TATA Consultancy Services (TCS), WIPRO, Tech Mahindra etc., Graduates have an opportunity to choose & work in various core fields such as Telecommunications, Radio & Television, Robotics, Embedded Systems, VLSI, Aviation & Avionics, Internet of Things, RF & Microwave Engineering, Cellular Mobile Communication, Networking, Digital Signal Processing, Digital Image Processing, Cyber Security.

## Subsection: Career Prospects

The demands for EEE graduates are very high in both the public and private sectors. Public firms, like power generation plants, need a great deal of electrical engineers to generate, transmit and distribute the power. All these employment requirements point towards the bright future of the electrical students, who have sound technical and communication skills

## Subsection: DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING

Electrical and Electronics Engineering is arguably the technology which has shaped the world we live in. Faculty dedicate their excellence in teaching, exemplified by a free exchange of ideas, fostering new understandings through research and creativity. The graduates are given chances to gain knowledge through innovative workshops, critical thinking trainings, entrepreneurship programmes, Industry Interactions and so on with regular basis, to keep them updated with the latest trends in the electrical and electronics engineering. The department is progressing well to fulfill the vision of the institute with a motto to provide a value based education with the noble goal of "Empowering Women through Education".

## Subsection: DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

Information Technology Department envisions streamlining the focus of the students and the programme has been designed to cater the ever changing needs and demands of IT Industry. The predominant focus is on holistic learning and empowering students to make significant contributions at all levels. The open electives give a handful of choices for students to develop expertise in their area of interest. Besides, the department has contributed to the growth of the college with the number of unique offerings in IT association which promotes a forum for debate, training, place of assistance and research, which actively promotes good Cyber netizen Society and advises the concerned bodies on related subject among the students and helps them to keep abreast of all the latest trends in IT.

## Subsection: Career Prospects

The aim of a department is to provide quality training and to shape our students to be employable in multi- national companies such as Robert Bosch, IBM, Mainframe TCS, CTS, etc., and accelerates to meet the growing demand of a wide range of rewarding careers with the assistance of rapidly expanding world of Information Technology.

## Subsection: DEPARTMENT OF BIOTECHNOLOGY

Biotechnology integrates multiple disciplines of science and its application in Engineering. Biotechnology is the processes to develop technologies and products that help improve our lives and the health of our planet. The prime research areas of Biotechnology includes prime focused research area includes Cellular & Molecular Biology, Biomaterials & Tissue Engineering, Herbal Medicines & Antioxidants Research, Bioprocess Engineering, Environmental Biotechnology, Nano-Biotechnology, Food Biotechnology, Computational Biology, Industrial Biotechnology and Product Development.

The four main areas of application of biotechnology are Health care, Crop production and agriculture, Industrial production of Value added products, Environmental Biotechnology. Biotechnology has not left a single stone untouched. It has touched every aspect of human life and will continue to do so with new vigour.

## Subsection: Career Prospects

An increasing popularity and explosive growth with plenty of opportunities in Biotechnology field as Research scientist, Agricultural Biotechnologist, Biophysicists, Quality Analyst in R&D, Production Engineer, Process Engineer, Quality Analyst & Quality Control Officer, Safety Specialist, Process Development Scientists, Chemical, Biochemical and Pharmaceutical industrialist and professionals etc., Moreover, the sky is the limit for those who opt for start-up / entrepreneurial avenues in biotechnology as Bio- entrepreneurs in the fields like Mushroom cultivation, Sprirulina, Vermicompositng, Biofertilizer, Biogas, Tissue culture.

## Subsection: DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING

The Department of Civil Engineering in Vivekanandha College of Technology for Women, aims to create an outstanding engineers through advanced teaching techniques and learning aids and also demonstration on through laboratories.

The strength of the department lies in well qualified and experienced faculty members specialized in structural, environmental, water resources, transportation, surveying and construction engineering.

Scope of Civil Engineering renders employment opportunities everywhere all over the world, where infrastructure development is picking up. Civil Engineer finds the role across the globe both in public & private sectors.

## Subsection: Career Prospects

The well grounded educational experience in Civil Engineering helps our students to become a Planning Engineer, Structural Engineer, Construction Engineer, Geotechnical Engineer, Transportation Engineer, Environmental Engineer, Landscape Architecture, Quantity Surveyor and Land Surveyor.

## Subsection: DEPARTMENT OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE & MACHINE LEARNING

The Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning department equips students with the most in-demand skills needed for a career in Current and Future Technologies. In our state-of-the-art laboratory, hands-on learning experience is provided to the learners so as to attain experience in Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Internet of Things and Automation Tools which rules the world. Department offers adequate academic flexibility to students to pursue their own interests in choice of electives and projects. Various platforms are created for interaction with Industry counterparts and students can attain insight into real-world challenges. Utmost care is taken in inculcating values and professional ethics in the minds of learner's to become receptive to new challenges and it includes an internship, which helps them in launching a successful career.

## Subsection: Career Prospects

The career opportunities for Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning graduates are ultimate in the field such as . Programming and Software Development, Data Scientists, Data Analysts, Information Systems, Networking, Computer Science Research, Vehicle Automation, Agriculture and computer industry as well as in higher studies. The specialization gives an edge for the students to thrive in their competitive world and become successful entrepreneurs in their career.

## Subsection: DEPARTMENT OF BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING

Biomedical Engineering (BME) is an emerging field that improves human health by combining problem solving skills of Engineering and Medical Sciences to offer long term solutions in advanced healthcare and treatment. BME encompasses disciplines such as human anatomy and physiology, diagnostic and therapeutic equipment, medical imaging modalities, biomaterials and rehabilitation engineering. Our institution serves as the platform for various research enhancement programmes by entering into MoUs with DRDO, ISRO, ICMR research labs and mandatory internships in Vivekanandha Health Care Hospital and other multi-speciality hospitals. We groom efficient Biomedical Engineers to fit into a wider range of technological areas from diagnosis, monitoring as well as life support and treatment.

## Career Prospects

Biomedical Engineers can be placed lucratively in manufacturing sectors, industries, healthcare and medical facilities (both in service and designing areas), governmental medical organizations as well as research organizations.

## Subsection: DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING 

The greener department that serves the basic needs for human life is Agricultural engineering. The design of the department purely involves in providing the quality growth of crop and its production with infusion of technological developments in the field that aims to serve a safe food to the society.

The success ride of the agricultural department is on the four 'P' wheels - Professional professors, Perfect technology driven laboratories, Practical exposure, Persistent training programs.

Technology based syllabi in agricultural aspects have high scope for its new evolution. Demands for agricultural engineer nurtured with technology are high in and around the country. In future, the demand predicted will be more for the agricultural engineer.

## Subsection: Career Prospects

All the agro companies, fertilizer companies, agro equipment &amp; machinery companies across the globe have a greater requirement for agricultural engineer. Agricultural engineer bears the role as agricultural researcher, Extension specialist, Land development engineer, Machinery designers, Electrification and power system designer, precision application engineer, environmental control engineer etc.

## Subsection: DEPARTMENT OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE & DATA SCIENCE

Artificial Intelligence and Data Science is an interdisciplinary branch of Science, Engineering and Technology, creating a complete ecosystem and widely used in almost every sector of the technical industry, academics and research. Artificial Intelligence and Data Science is the future of the technology which are rapidly changing the world at a very high rate. The basic objectives of the course is too train students with the next age of intelligence and analytics generated by machines, influencing the human lives to improve efficiencies and augment human capabilities, influencing consumer products with significant breakthroughs in healthcare, manufacturing, financing and retail industries.

## Subsection: Career Prospectus

Artificial Intelligence and Data Science graduates will be able to design, and develop intelligent business applications to solve various industrial problems. These graduates can also exhibit their domain knowledge in data handling, knowledge extraction, intelligence web/ecommerce development, database administration, computer hardware, networking, education and training and decision support systems using AI and Data Science tools and techniques. This study has a significant impact on the manufacturing, e-commerce, banking, finance, transportation, and healthcare industries. Career opportunity of the course are business analyst, data analyst , intelligence analyst, data scientist, data manager, machine learning architect, information security analyst.

## Subsection: M.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering (5 year integrated) 
The Integrated M.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) is a five-year integrated programme designed for students aiming to gain advanced technical expertise in computing, software development, and emerging technologies. Unlike the traditional route of pursuing a B.Tech (4 years) followed by an M.Tech (2 years) separately, this integrated course streamlines the learning process, offering both degrees in a compressed and well- structured curriculum. This programme covers fundamental and advanced topics in Computer Science, including Core subjects, Advanced topics, Research & Industry Exposure, Specializations in AI/ML, Data Science, Cyber Security, etc. Graduates of this programme have access to diverse career paths across industries, research and academia.

## Subsection: Career Prospects

Software Development Engineer (SDE), Data Scientist, Cyber security Analyst, Designing, Developing, Testing and Maintaining software systems. The demand for skilled software developers is consistently high in sectors like tech, finance, and healthcare. You will work on securing networks, systems, and data from cyber threats and attacks. Opens doors to higher positions in tech firms and research labs.

## Subsection: AICTE IDEA LAB

One crore worth of AICTE-IDEA (Idea Development, Evaluation & Application) Lab has been sanctioned since May 2022 at Vivekanandha College of Engineering for Women (Autonomous), Tiruchengode. This lab aims to inspire students to apply fundamentals of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) through hands-on experiences, learning by doing and product visualization. As an integrated facility within the institution, the IDEA Lab will help engineering graduates become more imaginative and creative, while also providing foundational training in essential 21st- century skills such as critical thinking, problem-solving, design thinking, collaboration, communication and lifelong learning.

---

# Section: ELIGIBILITY

## Subsection: First Year B.E / B.Tech / M.Tech (Integrated) Courses

A pass in H.Sc. academic / H.Sc. Vocational / its equivalent with minimum average mark in the relevant subjects as prescribed below :

| EXAMINATION | OC | BC/BCM | MBC/DNC | SC/SCA/ST |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| H.Sc. Academic : Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry | 45% | 40% | 40% | 40% |
| H.Sc. Vocational subject theory and practical and related subjects | 45% | 40% | 40% | 40% |

## Subsection: Second year ( Lateral Entry ) of B.E / B.Tech Courses

A Pass in the Diploma examination in Engineering / Technology of the State Board of Technical education and Training, Tamil Nadu.

A Pass with prescribed minimum eligibility marks in any recognized Bachelors Degree in science of minimum 3 years duration with 10+2+3 pattern and studied mathematics at +2 level or studied mathematics as core as one of the subjects. ( Note : Candidate with degree other than bachelor of science is not eligible ) with minimum average marks as prescribed below :

| EXAMINATION | OC | BC/BCM | MBC/DNC | SC/SCA/ST |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Diploma in Engineering I<sup>st</sup> Semester to 6<sup>th</sup> Semester Semester/B.Sc. Courses | 45% | 40% | 40% | 40% |

| Course | Eligibility |
|---|---|
| M.E. / M.Tech | Bachelor's degree or equivalent in the relevant field Obtained at least 50% ( 45% In case of candidates belonging to reserved category ) in the qualifying degree Examination. |
| M.E. Computer Science & Engineering | A Pass in B.E / B.Tech ( ECE / IT / CSE / Software Engg. / Computer and Communication Engg. |
| M.E. Power Systems Engineering | A Pass in B.E / B.Tech ( EEE / Electrical Engg. ) |
| M.E. VLSI Design | A Pass in B.E / B.Tech ( ECE ) |
| M.Tech Bio Technology | A Pass in B.E / B.Tech ( Bio Chemical / Industrial Bio Technology / Agricultural Bio Technology ) |

## Subsection: Ph.D. in Engineering / Technology

M.E. / M.Tech / M.S ( Research ) in the relevant Engineering (or) Technology

## Subsection: Ph.D. in Science and Humanities

M.Sc. / M.Phil. in relevant Department

* Merit Scholarship

* Cutoff Concession

* Postmatric Scholarship SC / ST

* Minority Scholarship

* First Graduate Scholarship

* Education Loan Scheme ( NBCFDC )

(National Backward Classes Finance and Development Corporation)

* Pudhumai Penn Scheme [6th to 12" ] Studied in Government School Only. [ Monthly Rs. 1000/- Amount ]

---

# Section: VIVEKANANDHA INSTITUTE OF INFORMATION AND MANAGEMENT STUDIES

Vivekanandha Institute of Information and Management Studies was established in the year 2002 with the approval of AICTE, New Delhi and Affiliated to Anna University, Chennai. The institution is recognized u/s 2(f) & 12(B) of UGC Act 1956 and an ISO 9001:2015 certified Institution. We provide dedicated and excellent service in the field of professional education offering MBA and MCA courses.

Our main aim is to impart Quality Education to budding professional Technocrats/ Gen-Next Managers/Entrepreneurs with holistic approach instilled in their personality. To attain this goal, the institution imparts training through various events and activities organized by both MBA and MCA departments.

## Subsection: Vision :

"Continuously engage in providing Management and Technical Education to Empower Women to be Economically Independent and Socially Responsive"

## Subsection: Mission :

We at VIIMS, are committed towards empowering rural women students by providing quality higher education to the aspirants in the field of Management and Computer Applications and thereby contributing to their economic independence.

## Subsection: Quality Policy :

"We, at Vivekanandha Institute of Information and Management Studies are committed to deliver Quality Higher Education in a Highly Conducive Learning Environment adapting Innovative Processes that enable the Students to achieve the desired Growth"

---

# Section: MASTER OF COMPUTER APPLICATIONS (MCA)

## Subsection: MASTER OF COMPUTER APPLICATIONS (MCA)

The broad objective of the MCA programme is to groom students for lucrative careers in software industry and academia by providing an outstanding environment for teaching and research in the core and emerging areas of the discipline.

It is committed to impart quality education in the sub-fields of IT, a field growing in leaps and bounds. The curriculum is framed in such a way that the course provides a good theoretical exposure foundation through high quality teaching complemented by extensive practical training. It is dedicated to the mission of including value-based, socially committed professionalism to the cause of overall development of all stake holders. The MCA department has evolved greatly in blending current software technology with application domain, web services, quality processes and behavioral skills that the IT industry demands.

## Subsection: TIE- UPS

VIIMS organizes industrial visits to various multinational SOFTWARE companies as part of the MCA Curriculum. Academicians and Industrialists from various grounds are invited to enhance the knowledge and skill sets of students. Industry Interface is strengthened by signing MOU with companies like WIPRO, HCL, TCS, Hexaware US Technologies, Hewlett Packard, Codissia etc. Campus interviews are conducted on regular basis and special training programs are also organized under the centralized placement Cell.

## Subsection: REGULAR PRACTICES ( MBA & MCA )

· National & International Seminars/Workshops / Conferences/Guest Lectures

+ Sponsored programmes from AICTE, ISTE, CSIR, DRDO

+ ISTE Life membership

· Soft skills Training and behavioral programmes

+ Placement Training

· Communication Training

NPTEL Online Courses & NSE Courses

· Toastmaster's Club

+ Outbound Trainning

---

# Section: MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (MBA)

## Subsetion: MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (MBA)

To impart Management Education for women students, the institution offers MBA programme that sets the students apart through 3-I Approach i.e., "Industry Institute Interface", students-driven activities with a global perspective. It is proud of its great intellectual capital of faculty with dedicated thoughts and equipped with rich industry experience. The students are provided powerful platform to compete strongly in corporate world with an infrastructure that can equip the students to match Industry requirements.

## Subsetion: Student Support Activities

In order to enlighten MBA students with "Ground realities" of industrial requirements a number of industrial visits are periodically arranged. An eminent Team of educationists and industrialists are involved to share their experience and knowledge with our students under the banner "Academic Connect and Corporate Connect".

The institution has an Entrepreneurship Development Cell sponsored by AICTE, New Delhi to inculcate an entrepreneurial culture among the students. Trade Fair (College Bazaar) is organized in association with Namakkal Collectorate every year, to enhance the marketing abilities of the students. Continuous placement training is offered by with corporate trainers develop the comprehensive skill sets of the students.

The institution has signed MOU's with reputed institutions like Confederation of Indian Industries (CII), CODISSIA, MMA and Government agencies like National Stock Exchange - NSE, MSME - Development institute (Chennai) for offering value addition certificate programmes and business skill development training to students. A robust interface with Industry is ensured through Guest Lectures delivered by Global Corporate Leaders, Industrial visits, Workshops, Live Projects, seminars, symposia, industry training opportunities, outbound training, MMA conventions and other academic & corporate forums. International Seminar is organized by the department every year in association with other institutions like Mother Terasa Women's University, Gandhi Gram Rural University, CII, NIPM and MMA etc.

The institution produces cent percent results in every academic year along with coveted University ranks by students who prove their intellectual mettle in every step of their academic endeavor.

## Subsetion: Ph.D. in Management (Full time and Part time)

The department has magnificient research facilities for offering part time and full-time research programme to produce excellent doctorates in the field of business administration. The programme is enhanced with e-library and e-journals with 25 hardcore systems and furnished with more than 1000 advanced titles in management research. The department is also equipped with exclusive R & D laboratory with state of-the-art-infrastructure.

## Subsetion: ELIGIBILITY

MBA - 2 years

A Pass in a recognized bachelor's degree ( in any discipline ) of minimum 3 years duration with 10+2+3/4 years (or) 10+3 years (diploma) +3 years pattern in any discipline obtaining 50% (45% in case of candidates belonging to the reserved category) in the qualifying examination. as per current AICTE norms.

Should have appeared for MAT/TANCET/any approved entrance examination

---

# Section: SWAMY VIVEKANANDHA MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL AND RESEARCH INSTITUTE

SVMCH & RI is established in 2017, Sponsored by Angammal Educational Trust under the chairmanship of "Vidhya Rathna" Prof. Dr. M. Karunanithi, B.Pharm., M.S., Ph.D., D.Litt., in Elayampalayam, Tiruchengode, Namakkal District. SVMCH & RI is a pollution free green campus, congenial to medical education, Research and health care delivery to the needy. It is a unitary treasury health care teaching campus, accommodating 150 MBBS students per year and functioning with multispecialty teaching 1000 beds at present. Essentiality certificate for SVMCH was obtained on 28.10.22. SVMCH & RI is affiliated to Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai after after obtaining consent from the university on 27.7.2020 and it is a approved Institute by the Ministry of Health & by the NMC.

## Subsetion: COURSES OFFERED

M.B.B.S. - 51/2 Years ( 41/2 Academic + 1 Year Internship )

M.D. - 3 Years

## Subsetion: ELIGIBILITY - M.B.B.S.

A Candidate should have passed the Higher Secondary Examination HSC (10+2)/PDC academic examination or any other qualification recognized as equivalent thereto, with Physics, Chemistry, Biology / Botany, Zoology 40% of marks in aggregate for SC / ST and 50% marks in aggregate for General category.

Candidate should be qualified in NEET examination for the current academic year. It is applicable for Govt., Management & NRI Seats. Admission will be based on allotment done by the selection committee (Directorate of Medical Education).

## Subsetion: ELIGIBILITY - M.D

A candidate should have passed the MBBS degree.

Candidate should be qualified in PG NEET examination for the current academic year. It is applicable for Govt, Management Seats. Admission will be based on allotment done by the selection committee(Directorate of Medical Education and Research)

## Subsetion: VISION

To develop and provide professionally qualified & competent doctors for augmenting the nations human resources in the medical field. To deliver quality health care & services to the needy at affordable cost in this region.

## Subsetion: MISSION

To impact academic excellence in medical education.

To practice medicines ethically in live with the global standard protocols.

---

# Section: ABOUT SVMCH & RI

Academic Block of SVMCH & RI ensures conductive environment for learning and research, student centered state of the art facilities, well developed global infrastructure facilities, updated A/C library - which is stalked with the latest editions of 4000 professional text books national and international indexed journals and magazines E-learning facilities. The pre and paraclinical departments from anatomy to community medicine are with well equipped attached labs to provide training for the pre clinical students as per NMC norm.

Four gallery type lecture Halls with LCD projectors, well organized & displayed Anatomy, Pathology, Microbiology, Museum with wide range of specimen collections, E-learning facilities for demo rooms for effective Teaching, Learning Methods (TLM), Central Research lab to induce and promote Research activities among students and staffs are available in the academic wing.

Our ethical committee is recognized one. Student and staffs can utilize the committee for the research purposes and to release their research papers in the journals.

Clinical skill lab of the Institute trains the students and made them to acquire clinical skills prior to the exposure to clinical side. As the result SVMCH & RI can produce to provide competency based health care training in a non threatening environment, there by competency based medical graduate at the end of the MBBS course and subsequent internship for one year.

Surgery with Laparoscopic, Endoscopy & Colonospic Clinic, Orthopedics with Joint Replacement Clinic, Physical medicine and Rehabilitation OP, ENT with speech therapy clinic, Opthal with Optometry /cataract clinic with optical shop, Dental Clinic, Digital Mammogram, DEXA Scan.

## Subsetion: STATE OF ART DIAGNOSTIC EQUIPMENTS AND LAB MEDICINE

Every patient expects that that the provisional diagnosis has to be confirmed by I lab medicine or with some diagnostic aids. To fulfill this aspiration, SVMCH is equipped with the state of art of diagnostic equipments like Digital X rays, latest ultra sonogram, Colour Doppler units, Hi end 1.5 TESLA - MRI scan, advanced multi slice CT, ECHO and TREAD mill units, spirometery units, EEG units apart from NABL accredidated molecular lab, well equipped &updated central lab including biochemistry, haematology, cytopathology, immune pathology, histopathology lab.

The reports are digitalized & reported by the concerned specialist. Quality manager looks after the overall Quality of services rendered by the various service sectors of the hospital including biomedical services, Housekeeping services etc., and the Hospital is now waiting for the NABH approval. Further SVMCH is also going to get elevated very soon as a PG institute with Research facilities of medical sciences in the forthcoming year with M.S/MD courses in the various disciplines.

---

# INFRASTRUCTURE & FACILITIES OF BOTH OUT PATIENT /INPATIENT SERVICES OF SVMCH

SVMCH & RI is a unitary campus comprising of academic block and tertiary care teaching hospital with all facilities including rooms for the clinical departments and teaching faculities as per NMC norms and NABH norms.

The Hospital comprises of Out Patient Departments in various Specialties like General medicine OPD with attached cardiology OP, Diabetics &Hypertension clinic, Obesity and Fitness clinic, Nutrition & Die tics &medical Oncology OPD.

Obstetrics and Gynecology with sterility clinic and family planning clinic.

Recently Evening clinic is also started after 4 pm to meet out the needs of local peoples.

OPD block is having Reception centre, OP Registration centre, Enquiry centre, May I Help You Desks and Billing centre with cash counters to guide and help the patients. Various Health Insurance schemes of both central and state govts and private health schemes facilities are available in SVMCH guided by a separate Insurance scheme department.

INPATIENT DEPARTMENTS are functioning with 700 teaching beds for various specialties viz., medicine and allied surgery and allied, OBG patients and Super specialities like cardiology at present. Regular OPD timing is 8.30 am to 3.30 pm Evening OPD time is 4pm to 8pm.Emergency patients are seen round o clock in the emergency department.

Apart from this, special periodical medical camps like - makkalai thedi maruthuvam - are conducted with the specialists in and around the Tiruchengode and also in the needy areas at free of cost. camp patients are given privileges for their surgeries and other treatment. Basic tests like blood sugar to rule out diabetes, Hb for anemic patients are done at free of cost. 3 days free drugs given for needy camp patients IP bed charge services, food at free of cost are given the needy patients in SVMCH. Special paying wards are also there to cater the needs of needy patients. There is a separate labor ward and cancer screening clinic in the OBG wing, free consultations are done for them. Separate EOT is there for the caesarians.

## Subsetion: OPERATION THEATRES AND ANESTHESIOLOGY DEPARTMENT

To meet out the needs of both emergency and elective patients, SVMCH is having fully well equipped 7 latest high tech A/C Modular major operation theatres and one minor operation theatre per each surgery and allied department, operated by the highly qualified anesthesiologists, technicians and OT nurses Number of OTs will be increased to 11 in the forthcoming year to meet out the growing medical needs and PG departments. Further, SVMCH is having 6 - updated 24hrs intensive care units viz., ICU, ICCU, SICU, RICU, PICU & NICU apart from HDU for OBG, Post Op. Ward. SVMCH is equipped with 60 bedded Each unit is 10 bedded one and are well equipped with latest high tech equipments like ventilators, monitors and central oxygen supply. Specially trained / qualified staff nurses, technicians and Intensivists are there to manage any medical emergencies round the clock. The 30 bedded Emergency ward is functioning round the clock to manage any accidents and trauma cases, poison cases& other emergencies.

## Subsetion: ANCILLARY SERVICES

24hrs ACLS ambulance services, well equipped a/c Blood bank capable of providing component therapy, 24 hrs Pharmacy services, drug information centre, Laundry and Bio medical waste management services, security services as well as CCTV cameras at strategic locations, food courts are also available in the campus to cater the needs of the patients students and staffs.

## Subsetion: CURRICULAM - IS A COMPETENCY BASED MEDICAL EDUCATION (CBME) ONE WITH FOUNDATION COURSE FOR THE INCOMING FRESH MBBS STUDENT

New NMC Curriculum for MBBS Course is as follows :

| PHASE | DURATION | SUBJECTS |
|---|---|---|
| I | 13 MONTHS | 1 MONTH FOUNDATION COURSE <br> ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, BIOCHEMISTRY |
| II | 11 MONTHS | PREVENTIVE & SOCIAL MEDICINE (PSM) <br> PATHOLOGY, PHARMACOLOGY, MICROBIOLOGY |
| III <br> PART - I | 12 MONTHS | PREVENTIVE & SOCIAL MEDICINE (PSM) <br> FORENSIC MEDICINE, ENT, OPTHALMALOGY |
| III <br> PART - II | 14 MONTHS | MEDICINE, PEDIATRICS, PSYCHIATRY <br> DERMATOLOGY, SURGERY, ORTHOPEDICS <br> ANESTHESIA, OBSTETRICS-GYNECOLOGY, RADIOLOGY |
| NEXT 1: NATIONAL EXIT TEST (MCQS BASED THEORY EXAM) <br> NEXT 2: NATIONAL EXIT TEST (PRACTICAL EXAM) |  | 1 YEAR COMPULSORY ROTATOR INTERNSHIP |

## Subsetion: EXTRA CURRICULAR

The campus is having well arched play ground and for indoor game auditorium. There is a separate yoga. Gym center for the students to keep the body and the mind fit and healthy. There is also a auditorium for conducting cultural programs.

## Subsetion: HOSTEL

The management runs state of the art hostels inside the campus to cater to the needs of the students who are from all over the country and abroad. They are well equipped with all modern amenities and are efficiently administered. They provide right atmosphere for student life and assure safety and security to all students.

No Stone has been left unturned in providing students with the very best facilities so that they can pursue their studies in a happy and conducive atmosphere.

---

# Section: VIVEKANANDHA DENTAL COLLEGE FOR WOMEN

Vivekanandha Dental College for Women is established in the year 2007, sponsored by Angammal Educational Trust, is the First Women Dental College in the Country. Availability of dental care and opportunity for Dental studies and Research have not grown proportionately to the explosive growth of human population in our country. To provide the best opportunity, Vivekanandha Dental College is functioning with the concept of extending its wide knowledge and technical skills to all the women opting for B.D.S. Course. The college is affiliated to Tamil Nadu Dr.M.G.R. Medical University. Also approved and recognised by the Dental Council of India and the Ministry of Health, Govt. of India.

## Subsetion: COURSES OFFERED

BDS - 4+1 Years (Bachelor of Dental Surgery) MDS - 3 Years (Master of Dental Surgery)

· Conservative Dentistry & Endodontics

· Orthodontics & Dentofacial Orthopedics

· Periodontology

· Public Health Dentistry

· Prosthodontics and Crown & Bridge

· Pediatric Dentistry

· Oral Medicine & Radiology

· Oral & Maxillofacial Pathology and Oral Microbiology

## Subsetion: FACILITIES

Vivekanandha Dental College is functioning with the following departments:

· Oral Diagnosis, Oral Medicine and Oral Radiology

· Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery

· Conservative Dentistry & Endodontics

· Periodontics and Implant Dentistry

· Paedodontics & Preventive Dentistry

· Public Health Dentistry

· Orthodontics

· Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology

· Prosthodontics and Crown & Bridge

This College is equipped with excellent clinical facilities like sophisticated Dental Units and X-Ray Units including Digital Orthophantography to provide Society Oriented Services. Phantom Head Lab & Preclinical Lab for the II Year and IV Year separately in Conservative & Prosthodontics Departments.

· Air Conditioned Hi-Tech Ceramic & Casting Lab with latest equipments.

· Exclusively designed Paedodontics Department with play room and special Paedo-Dental Chairs for the kids.

· Periodontics Department is functioning with advanced equipments such as Implant Kits, Laser Surgical Unit and Electrosurgical Cautery Unit.

· Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery Department is rendering service to the public with its full fledged Air conditioned Minor Operation Theatre.

· Oral and Maxillo Facial Pathology Department is provided with the state-of-the-art laboratory with facilites such as Micro Imaging system Penta Head Microscope and Immuno Histochemistry Lab for precise Diagnosis.

· Oral Medicine department is functioning with advanced digital orthophantograph X-Ray unit & CBCT Unit for precise diagnosis.

· Orthodontics department is providing tooth coloured fixed appliances.

· A fully air conditioned Library has good collection of books, National & International Journals with Internet facility.

· Sophisticated Air conditioned lecture halls with LCD projectors.

· Conducting Lecture classes in small batches ( 25 Students in one batch ).

· Conducting Special teaching programme for slow learners.

The primary objective of our graduate program is to train the student as a thoroughly qualified clinician and an educator in the field of dentistry.

The Dental College is attached with a 250 Bedded, Multi Speciality - Vivekanandha Medical Care Hospital and our Medical College for all clinical and Basics Medical science teaching Purpose.

## Subsetion: CRRI

After completing 4 years of B.D.S. course, students should undergo one year compulsory internship. Students will be posted in various dental speciality clinics and intensive clinical training will be given in Vivekanandha Dental Hospital. Also they will be posted in the peripheral primary health centers and hospitals. During the internship, students are given wide opportunities to participate in the State/Interstate level seminars, workshops and other continuing dental education programmes. Interns are also motivated for research programmes and publications.

## Subsetion: Department of Oral Medicine & Radiology

The Department of Oral Medicine and Radiology is unique and it combines Oral Medicine and Radiology. It sits at the interface between dentistry and medicine. It is a specialist clinical area of care for treating head and neck medical diseases. In some instances, systemic disease symptoms and signs reflect only in the mouth. However, in some cases mouth symptoms can suggest a connection with disease or problems in other parts of the body and it is the Oral Medicine specialist who can best decide what tests or investigations are needed in these situations. Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology deals with the acquisition and interpretation of radiographic imaging studies performed for diagnosis and treatment guidance for conditions affecting the maxillofacial region.

## Subsetion: Department of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery

Oral and maxillofacial surgery is the surgical branch of dentistry that merges the skill and acumen acquired in dentistry with the knowledge and confidence of medical surgical speciality by treating minor surgical to major in-patient surgical treatments.

From the humble beginning of dental background, confined to treating difficult extractions, impacted teeth and jaw pathologies from treating of facial bone fractures, the speciality has gradually widened its expertise to handle the pre-cancerous lesion and benign lesions of oral cavity.

## Subsection: Department of Prosthodontics, Crown, Bridge & Implantology

The Department of Prosthodontics deals with replacement of lost natural teeth and associated structure. The department not only deals with the reconstructive dentistry but also with reconstructive procedures for lost fingers, nose, ear and eye and also parts of face with artificial substitutes. The department also deals with implant supported oral prosthesis and implant supported facial prosthesis which is a recent evolution in dentistry.

## Subsetion: Conservative Dentistry & Endodontics

The Department of Conservative Dentistry & Endodontics at the Vivekanandha Dental College for Women, Thiruchengode, was established since the inception of the institute in 2007. The qualified training starts at diagnosis, treatment planning, restoration of dental cares and its sequel, malformations and discolorations of the teeth, thereby restoring the teeth to full function in an esthetic manner. It also deals with smile designing, esthetic dentistry, which includes bleaching of teeth, laminates and veneers. Endodontics is a specialized branch of dentistry that is oriented with root canal treatment procedures and periapical surgeries. In addition, prime importance and utmost care is given for infection control and sterilization of instruments. Meticulous protocol has been followed everyday for a complete sterile clinical environment. The motto of the department is to generate fully trained, well qualified clinicians and academicians with equally motivated treatment impartation for the patients.

## Subsetion: Department of Periodontics

The Department of Periodontics was established in 2007. The department is well designed according to the guidelines of Dental Council of India. It is a Postgraduate department. The department have separate clinical area for both undergraduates and postgraduates. The Department of Periodontics is doing with diagnosis, prevention and treatment of diseases of adult periodontal (gum) tissues. Also placing the dental implants and maintaining the health of the surrounding tissues of implant. The Department render professional scaling which is fundamental for strong dentition. All types of periodontal surgical procedures as flap surgery, periodontal plastic surgery, gingival surgical procedures, placement of IMPLANTS, LASER surgical procedures are done here. Both natural and artificial bone grafting for lost hard structures are also done here. The department is concerning about periodontal health of the patient, by treating the periodontal disease and preventing recurrence.

## Subsetion: Department of Orthodontics & Dentofacial Orthopaedics

The Department of orthodontics and Dentofacial orthopaedics, spread across the lavish 5000 square feet inbuilt area. The department was started in 2007. It is equipped with the state of the art equipments for both undergraduate and postgraduate levels. The department has separated undergraduate and postgraduate laboratory and clinical area to accommodate 100 undergraduate students.

Postgraduate programme in the department of orthodontics (MDS- orthodontics) has separate clinical area with ultra-modern equipments for both chair side and laboratory works. For patient record maintenance department has separate record room. Department has separate photographic room. The records are maintained for more than 300 successfully completed clinical cases for every year.

## Subsetion: Department of Oral Pathology & Microbiology

Oral pathology is the speciality of dentistry and discipline of pathology that deals with the nature, identification, and management of diseases affecting the oral and maxillofacial regions. It is a science that investigates the causes, processes, and effects of these diseases. The diagnostic services of this department provide dental clinician with information about the presence, severity and cause of diseases in patients attending our institution. A team of laboratory technicians with state-of-the-art diagnostic equipment, guided by senior oral pathologist, ensure the quality and accuracy of the diagnostic results. Around 4500 diagnostic tests are delivered every year with a focus on empowering dental clinicians to make informed decisions, and patients with the truth about their health status.

## Subsetion: Department of Public Health Dentistry

Vivekanandha Dental College for Women, has strived to deliver oral care for rural masses to promote their oral health and the Department of Public Health Dentistry has been at the center of these efforts. Public Health Dentistry is one of the rapidly evolving branches among the dental specialities that focus on the oral health at community level. The subject incorporates topics like epidemiological approaches, statistical methods, prevention of dental problems, planning and delivery of dental care. Regular outreach programs are conducted focusing on preventive and promotive aspects providing affordable dental care to the community. The students are encouraged to organize and participate outreach programs to inculcate leadership qualities. The Department of Public Health carries out regular activities related to oral healthcare.

## Subsetion: Mobile Dental Clinic

Mobile Dental Clinic / Bus is fully air-conditioned with all necessary equipments like ultrasonic scalers, Laser units and X-ray units. A full pledged dental lab and an AV system are also available.

## Subsetion: Department of Pedodontics & Preventive Dentistry

The Department of Pedodontics and Preventive dentistry is that branch of dentistry which deals with the treatment of children's teeth. Our department strives not only to provide early diagnosis, interception and treatment of oral diseases, but also includes counseling parents and children regarding diet and prevention of dental caries, traumatic injuries of teeth, gingival and periodontal diseases in children, pediatric endodontics and, preventive and interceptive orthodontics. Our goal is to provide comprehensive dental care to children including those with special health care needs. And to achieve this, the department concentrates on training dental students towards this end with quality dental education and also advance dental science utilising state of the art technology and render efficient and excellent dental services to patients.

ELIGIBILITY - BDS

A candidate should have passed the Higher Secondary Examination HSC (10+2)/PDC academic examination or any other qualification recognized as equivalent thereto, with Physics, Chemistry, Biology / Botany, Zoology 40% of marks in aggregate for SC/ST and 50% marks in aggregate for General category.

Also the Candidate should be qualified in NEET examination for the current academic year. It is also applicable for NRI students.

Admission will be based on allotment done by the selection committee (Directorate of Medical Education)

Age Limit

A Candidate admitted to the first year BDS Course should have completed the age of 17 years at the time of admission or would complete the age on or before 31 December of the year of admission.

ELIGIBILITY - MDS

Candidates for admission to the first year M.D.S Post Graduate Degree Course:

(a) Should have qualified for the B.D.S Degree of this University or any other University recognised as equivalent thereto by the authority of this University and the Dental Council of India and obtained permanent registration from any of the State Dental Councils.

(b) Also Candidates should be qualified in NEET examination for the current academic year.

(C) Admission will be based on allotment done by the selection committee (Directorate of Medical Education)

---

# Section: SWAMY VIVEKANANDHA NATUROPATHY AND YOGA MEDICAL COLLEGE (Co-Ed)

Swamy Vivekanandha Naturopathy and Yoga Medical College (co-ed) was established in the year 2020. Affiliated to The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R Medical University, Chennai, Approved by Directorate of Indian Medicine and Homeopathy, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Tamilnadu.

## Subsetion: COURSES OFFERED

## Subsetion: BNYS (51/2 years) 41/2 years Academics +1 year Internship Program

Bachelor of Naturopathy and Yogic Sciences is recognized as an Indian System of Medicine under the Ministry of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy), the Government of India. It's a 51/2 Years Medical Degree Course which includes 41/2 years Academic Program and 1 Year Compulsory Residential Rotatory Internship (CRRI).

Naturopathic medicine is a distinct system of health care with an emphasis on prevention and restoration of the body's own repair mechanism using a combination of noninvasive, natural modalities. Naturopathic Medicine gives a fundamental knowledge about basic medical science and teaches methods to promote Naturopathic life style for a healthy living in this era of lifestyle disorders.

## Subsetion: Academic Curriculum

* Biochemistry

* Philosophy & Practice of Yoga

* Human Anatomy - I & II

* Human Physiology - I & II

* Philosophy of Nature Cure - I & II

* Yoga & Physical Culture - I

* Pathology I & II

* Microbiology

* Diagnostic Methods in Naturopathy

* Modern Diagnostic Methods

* Basic Pharmacology

· Yoga & Physical Culture II

* Forensic Medicine & Toxicology

* Community Medicine

* Psychology & Basic Psychiatry

* Obstetrics & Gynaecology

* Massage, Chiropractice, Osteopathy & Aromotherapy

* Nutrition & Herbology

* Yoga Therapy

· Hydrotherapy & Clay Theraphy

· Fasting & Diet Theraphy

· Chromotheraphy & Magnetotheraphy

* Physiotherapy

· Acupuncture, Acupressure & Reflexology

* Minor Surgery, First Aid & Emergency Medicine

* Medical Ethics & Hospital Management

## Subsetion: Department of Naturopathy

Naturopathy is a drugless -system of medicine, that imparts natural therapies based on theory of vitality, toxaemia, and the self-healing capacity of human body and the principles of healthy living . Through Naturopathy, students are educated to deal with the health promotion and disease prevention.

## Subsetion: Department of Yoga

It aims at providing a meticulous knowledge and in depth experience in the study of Yoga as a Philosophy, Practice and Therapy through a concentrated study of Yogasanas, Pranayama, Mudras and Bandhas, Meditation techniques, Mantras, philosophical and religious scriptures. Yoga Philosophy and Practice explains about the history and outlines on branches of Yoga. It also explains about the rules and regulations of Yoga and to prepare themselves physically and mentally for the practice of Yoga. Yoga and Physical Culture provides deep learning of Yoga by applying the knowledge of anatomy and physiology to understand the biomechanical effects of the different postures and to know the importance of Shatkriyas and to learn about the science of nervous mechanism related to yoga. Yoga Therapy is the application of different Yoga practices to treat various disease conditions.

## Subsetion: ELIGIBILITY

· HSC Academic or any Equivalent Stream

· Aggregate marks of OC - 50%, BC-45%, MBC-40%, SC/ST-35% in Physics, Chemistry and Biology or Botany& Zoology

· Age : 17 years, as on 31st December on or before the year of admission

## Subsetion: CAREER OPTIONS

· Government Naturopathy Doctor in Government Hospitals after passing the Medical Recruitment Board Examinations and Public sector examinations.

· Naturopathic Doctor in Multi specialty Hospital.

· Medical officer.

· Medical consultant.

· Assistant Professor in any Naturopathy college.

· Hospital Administrative Officer.

· Can start own Clinic or Naturopathy Hospital.

· Can start own Acupuncture Clinic.

· Can start own Physiotherapy Center.

· Can start own Yoga Studio / Center.

· Clinical Research Officer.

· Spa consultant / Directors.

· Wellness Directors.

· Health consultant.

· Nutrition & Dietetics Counselor, Lactations & Natural birth counselor.

## Subsetion: HIGHER STUDIES

## Subsetion: CLINICAL :

· MD Naturopathy.

· MD Yoga.

· MD Acupuncture & Energy Medicine.

· MD Nutrition & Dietetics.

## Subsetion: NON CLINICAL

· M.Sc-Yoga, Medical Anatomy, Medical Physiology, Medical Biochemistry, Medical Microbiology, Clinical Psychology, Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics.

· MPH ( MASTERS IN PUBLIC HEALTH).

· MBA (HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT).

· Ph.D. in Various States & Central Medical Colleges & Universities after Post-Graduation.

---

# Section: SWAMY VIVEKANANDHA PHYSIOTHERAPY COLLEGE (Co-Ed)

## Subsetion: COURSES OFFERED

## Subsetion: BPT ( Bachelor of Physiotherapy )

Course Duration : 41/2 Years ( 4-Years Academic & 6 - Months Internship )

Swamy Vivekanandha Physiotherapy College (Co-Ed) was established in the year of 2020. Affiliated to The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R Medical University, Chennai & Approved by Health and Family Welfare Department, Govt. of TN., The Institution provides dedicated and excellent service in the field of Professional education offering Bachelor of Physiotherapy.

The main aim is impart quality education to budding professional physiotherapist of generation next with holistic approach instilled in their personality. To attain the Goal the institute imparts training through various events and activities organized by physiotherapy department.

## Subsetion: ELIGIBILITY

A Pass in Higher Secondary or any other equivalent examinations with Physics, Chemistry, Biology or Botany and Zoology subject. Age Limit : Age Limit 17 years on or before 31st December of the year of Admission.

## Subsetion: About Physiotherapy

Physiotherapy is treatment to restore, maintain, and make the most of a patient's mobility, function, and well-being. Physiotherapy helps through physical rehabilitation, injury prevention, and health and fitness. Physiotherapists get you involved in your own recovery.

## Subsetion: Vision

Continuously engage in providing Treatment and Management and Physiotherapy Education to empower student to be economically Independent and Socially responsive

## Subsetion: Mission

Employ appropriate learning methods with advance treatment techniques to Groom students into technically competent and Ethically strong Quality professionals

## Subsetion: Quality Policy

We Swamy Vivekananda Physiotherapy College is committed to deliver Quality higher education in a highly condesive learning environment adapting innovative processes that enable the students to achieve the desired Growth.

## Subsetion: Facilities

· 700 Bedded Super Speciality Hospital & Medical College Hospital

· Anatomy and Physiology lab

· Psychometry Lab

· Walking School

· Exercise therapy Lab

· Electrotherapy Lab

## Subsetion: Role of Physiotherapist

· Work with patients who have a range of conditions, including neurological, musculoskeletal, cardiovascular and respiratory, sometimes over a period of weeks

. Make a clinical assessment and diagnosis in order to treat their physical problem/condition

· Design and review clinical management plans that encourage exercise and movement by the use of a range of techniques, and which may include specialist rehabilitation, life-style medicine, long-term strategies, and clinical techniques

· Involve parents and careers in the treatment, review and rehabilitation of patients

. Educate patients and their careers about how to prevent and/or improve conditions

· Write patient case notes and reports, and collect statistics

· Liaise with other healthcare professionals, such as GPS, consultants, occupational therapists and social workers, to exchange information about the background and progress of patients, as well as to refer patients who require other medical attention

· Keep up to date with new techniques and technologies available for treating patients

· Supervise student and junior physiotherapists and physiotherapy support workers

· Be legally responsible and accountable

· Be caring, compassionate and professional at all times manage clinical risk

## Subsetion: Career Prospects

· Independent Physiotherapy Practice ( Own Clinic )

· Clinical Physiotherapist in Hospitals ( Government & Private )

· Clinical Physiotherapist in Overseas

· Sports Physiotherapist

· Medical Transcription & Medical Coding

· Teaching Faculties in Government & Private Physiotherapy College

· Fitness Trainer

· Neuro Rehabilitation Centre

· Community Rehabilitation Centre

---

# Section: SWAMY VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF PHARMACY Tiruchengode Campus VIVEKANANDHA PHARMACY COLLEGE FOR WOMEN Sankari Campus


## Subsetion: COURSES OFFERED

| Course                               | Duration | Availability |
|------------------------------------|----------|-------------|
| D.Pharm. (Diploma in Pharmacy)      | 2 Years  | Girls only  |
| B.Pharm. (Bachelor of Pharmacy)     | 4 Years  | Girls only  |
| B.Pharm. (Lateral Entry)           | 3 Years  | Girls Only  |
| Pharm.D. (Doctor of Pharmacy)      | 6 Years  | Girls only  |
| M.Pharm. (Master of Pharmacy)     | 2 Years  | Co-Ed      |
| Ph.D. Full time                    | 3 Years  | Co-Ed      |
| Ph.D. Part time                    | 4 Years  | Co-Ed      |

## Subsetion: M.Pharm. Branch / specializations

| Pharmaceutics | Pharmaceutical Chemistry |
|---|---|
| Pharmacy Practice | Pharmacognosy |
| Pharmacology | Pharmaceutical Analysis |

Swamy Vivekanandha College of Pharmacy (NBA Accredited) was established in the year 1992. Vivekanandha Pharmacy College for Women was established in the year 2017. Both the Colleges are recognized by the Government of Tamil Nadu, affiliated to The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai, approved by PCI (Pharmacy Council of India) and AICTE ( All India Council for Technical Education ), New Delhi.

## Subsetion: Department of Pharmacology

The Department of Pharmacology is well equipped with sophisticated instruments for carrying out Higher Research projects. The department has its own well maintained sophisticated Animal House facility ( Registration No.889/PO/Re/S/05/CCSEA ) approved by Committee for the Purpose of Control and Supervision of Experiments on Animals (CCSEA), New Delhi (Govt. of India) for conducting experiments on Laboratory Animals such as Mice, Rats, Guinea Pigs, and Rabbits if essential for preclinical studies. The department goal is to train and produce highly knowledgeable and outstanding students for dynamic and successful careers in Pharmaceutical industry, Academics, R&D, Healthcare and Public sectors. Our Pharmacology Department involved in the research oriented animal studies like Anti-inflammatory, analgesic, anti cancer screening with the approval of CCSEA.

## Subsetion: Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry

The Department offers excellent infrastructure with sophisticated equipments and well equipped laboratories and knowledge in the form of a vast collection of relevant books and journals.

Better drugs for better therapy has always been a motto of medicinal chemists by keeping this in mind, the department is acting as a hub for the new drug discovery by focusing on organic new molecules, using the knowledge of both synthetic and natural chemistry and in close combination with computational chemistry together aiming at the discovery and development of new therapeutic agents.

The department is also actively engaged in the research activities like phytochemical studies. Various chemical entities synthesized and isolated from natural origin were screened for the pharmacological activities like anticancer, antioxidant, anxiolytic, chemo preventive, anti-inflammatory activities etc.

## Subsetion: Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis

The Department is Enriched with an eminent faculty and researchers. The laboratory for Pharmaceutical Analysis is equipped with latest analytical state-of-the-art equipments and trained analysts. The major research programmes largely focuses on new analytical method development. The department involves in various research activities like development and validation of novel analytical methods by using HPLC, UV - Visible Spectrophotometer and FT - IR Spectrophotometer. Many research projects are currently under way in a range of general and specific analytical problems utilizing a variety of instrumental and mathematical techniques.

## Subsetion: Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D)

The Pharm.D program is a post-graduate pharmacy degree of about 6 years. The Pharm.D degree requires five years of classroom and hospital based study, followed by one year of internship training in addition to practicals and research project.

The Pharm.D course offers a very good theoretical and practical knowledge to students on Pharmacotherapeutics, Clinical Pharmacy, Clinical Research, Biopharmaceutics, Hospital Pharmacy, and Community Pharmacy.

The students carry out their practical classes at 300 Bedded NABH Accredited Multi Spicality Vivekanandha Medical Care Hospital, which is offering medical services to various departments like Cardiology, Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Ophthalmology, Paediatrics, Orthopaedics and General Surgery being the most specialized departments.

## Subsetion: Department of Pharmaceutics

The Department of Pharmaceutics is a well equipped one for teaching, research activities & Consultancy services. The department received funds from various funding agencies such as AICTE under Modernization & Removal of Obsolescence (MORDROB) scheme & TNSCST & equipped with Nano particle size analyzer (Zeta sizer). The major focus of this department is to conduct independent & collaborative research in various novel drug delivery systems, to impart the knowledge of students with scientific & technical skills to comply the industrial needs, to create links with industries for career development & training. The department is to provide students with a strong focus & training to prepare them for careers in academia, pharmaceutical industry & research activities. The focused research areas of the department are Preformulation Research, Development of numerous pharmaceutical dosage forms including novel drug delivery systems, Quantification of developed dosage forms with respect of various in- vitro & in- vivo parameters and Biopharmaceutics & pharmacokinetics studies of the drug and formulations.

## Subsetion: Routine schedule of our Pharm.D students involves

Ward rounds, Patient Medical and Medication interview, Patient Counselling, Pharmacovigilance, Drug Interaction & ADR Monitoring, Drug & Poison Information Services.

## Subsetion: Hospital Ward Rounds

Pharm.D students are posted towards various departments at Vivekanandha Medical Care Hospital. They participate in ward rounds with the physicians, which offer them a very good knowledge on therapeutics, emergency medicine and patient care. The students update their knowledge on safe use of drugs by monitoring the therapyregimen of the patients. The

physicians teach the students various issues involved in prescribing drugs and changing drug therapy to ensure patient safety. The students come across a variety of cases and drug therapy, which improve their knowledge on Pharmacotherapeutics. Students provide bed-side counseling to the patients also.

## Subsetion: Patient Medical and Medication interview

Involving in Patient Medical and Medication interviews improves the students' ability to communicate with the patients. This would help them in retrieving information from the patients regarding their past medical and medication history.

Pharm.D students employ formulated systems in getting information so as to facilitate good patient information retrieval.

## Subsetion: Patient Counselling

Pharm.D students are posted at counselling sections at various departments. The students give counselling to the patients regarding correct and safe usage of medicines, and diet and life-style modifications.

## Subsetion: Pharmacovigilance

Pharm.D students are actively involved in Pharmacovigilance (PV) activities like detection, assessment, understanding and prevention of adverse effects or any other drug-related problem.

## Subsetion: Drug & Poison Information Services

Drug & Poison Information Services were established in Vivekanandha Medical Care Hospital and equipped with advanced drug reference data base of Micromedex to answer the drug and poison information to the health care professional and public.

## Subsetion: Pharm.D. Internship

Pharm.D Internship Students posted in our 24 hrs Multi Specialty Vivekanandha Medical Care Hospital at various departments like General Medicine, Cardiology, Gynecology, Nephrology, Orthopedics and emergency medicine in rotation basis for 12 months under the direct supervision of the head of the particular department. During the period, interns will have direct access with patients and doctors. They are actively involved in various clinical services of Ward Round Participation, Patient Counseling, ADR Monitoring and Reporting, Drug Interaction Checking, Cost Analysis, Monitoring Drug RELATED PROBLEMS, Involving in Therapeutic Interventions and Drug and Poison information services.

## Subsetion: ELIGIBILITY

## Subsetion: Diploma In Pharmacy (D.Pharm.)

A candidate should have passed in HSC Academic (10+2) examination with Physics, Chemistry and Biology or Mathematics as subjects (or) any other qualification approved by the Pharmacy Council of India.

## Subsetion: Bachelor of Pharmacy (B.Pharm.), Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D)

A candidate should have passed the Higher Secondary Examination HSC (10+2) / PDC academic examination with Physics, Chemistry, Biological Science or Maths as Subjects with 35% of marks in aggregate for SC / ST and 40% marks in aggregate for General category. (for Pharm.D 35 % of marks in aggregate for all Category) or any other qualification recognized as equivalent thereto.

## Subsetion: Age Limit

A Candidate admitted to the first year of B.Pharm Course should have completed 17 years at the time of admission (or) would complete the mentioned age on or before 31 Dec. of the year of admission.

## Subsetion: B.Pharm. (Lateral Entry) Direct II Year

Candidates seeking admission to B.Pharm. by Lateral entry system should have

1) Aggregate of 50% marks in I & II D.Pharm. Examination

2) Min. qualifying marks in 10+2 exams as per B.Pharm statue.

3) Registered in Pharmacy Council

## Subsetion: Master of Pharmacy (M.Pharm.)

Candidates (Male / Female) for admission to first year of M.Pharm. degree course shall be required to :

Have qualified B.Pharm. degree of this University or any other University recognized as equivalent thereto by the authority of this University.

## Subsetion: Ph.D. Programme

Candidates (Male / Female) should have qualified M.Pharm. degree of this university or any other university recognised as equivalent thereto by the authority of this university.

---

# Section: VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF NURSING Tiruchengode Campus

# Section: VIVEKANANDHA NURSING COLLEGE FOR WOMEN Sankari Campus

Vivekanandha College of Nursing was started in the year 1993, Vivekanandha Nursing College for Women was started in the year 2007. Both Colleges are recognized by the Government of Tamil Nadu, approved by the Indian Nursing Council, New Delhi, The Tamil Nadu Nurses & Midwives Council, Chennai and affiliated to the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai, Directorate of Medical Education, Chennai and Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Chennai.

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

| Course Name | Duration |
|---|---|
| ANM | 2 Years |
| Diploma in Nursing (GNM) | 3 Years |
| B.Sc. Nursing | 4 Years |
| Post Basic B.Sc. Nursing | 2 Years |
| M.Sc. Nursing | 2 Years |

## Subsection:  M.Sc. Nursing - Branch / Specialization

Medical Surgical Nursing

Child Health (Paediatric Nursing) Obstetrics and Gynaecological Nursing

Community Health Nursing

Mental Health (Psychiatric Nursing)

Offering Excellence in
Quality Nursing Education

## Subsection: Eligibility

## Subsection: ANM

* The minimum educational requirements shall be 10 + 2 in Arts (Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Biotechnology, Economics, Political Science, History, Geography, Business Studies, Accountancy, Home Science, Sociology, Psychology, and Philosophy) and English Core/English Elective or Science or Health care Science - Vocational stream ONLY passing out from recognized Board, Student shall be medically fit.

## Subsection: Age Limit

Minimum and Maximum age for admission will be 17 and 35 years.

## Subsection: GNM (Diploma Nursing)

· 10+2 class passed preferably Science (PCB) & English with aggregate of 40% marks.

· 10+2 in Arts (Mathematics, Biotechnology, Economics, Political Science, History, Geography, Business Studies, Accountancy, Home Science, Sociology, Psychology, Philosophy) and English Core/English Elective or Health care Science - Vocational stream ONLY, passing out from recognized Board under AISSCE / CBSE / ICSE / SSCE / HSCE or other equivalent Board with 40% marks.

· 10+2 vocational ANM under CBSE Board or other equivalent board from the school and recognized by Indian Nursing Council with 40% marks.

· Registered as ANM with State Nursing Registration Council.

· Student shall be medically fit.

. Students qualified in 10+2 Arts or Science examination or Health care Science - Vocational stream ONLY conducted by National Institute of Open School with 40% marks.

## Subsection: Age Limit

Minimum and Maximum age for admission will be 17 and 35 years.

## Subsection: B.Sc. (N) COURSE

· 10+2 class passed in the subject of Physics, Chemistry Biology (PCB) and English individually and must have obtained a minimum of 45% marks taken together in PCB from recognized board under AISSCE / CBSE / ICSE / SSCE / HSCE or other equivalent Board.

· Student shall be medically fit.

· Students appearing in 10+2 examination in Science conducted by National Institute of Open School with 45% marks.

## Subsection: Age Limit

· The minimum age for admission shall be 17 years on 31 December of the year in which admission is sought.

## Subsection: Post Basic B.Sc. (N) COURSE

· Passed out the diploma nursing course (GNM) recognized by the INC, concern state nursing council and DME.

· Obtained a certificate in General Nursing and Midwifery and registration as R.N.R. M. with the State Nurses Registration Council.

· Candidates shall be medically fit.

· No age Limit.

## Subsection: M.Sc., (N) COURSE

· The Candidate should be Registered Nurse and Registered midwife of equivalent with any State Nursing Registration Council.

· The Minimum education requirements shall be the passing of B.Sc. Nursing with minimum of 55% aggregate marks.

· The candidate should have undergone in B.Sc. Nursing / B.Sc. Hons. Nursing / Post Basic B.Sc. Nursing in an institution which is recognized by Indian Nursing Council.

· Minimum one year of work experience after Basic B.Sc. Nursing.

· Minimum one year of work experience Prior (or) after post basic B.Sc Nursing.

· No age limit.

---

# Section: 300 Bedded Super Speciality Hospital

· Accident & Toxicology Emergency Care

· General Medicine

· Diabetology

· General & Laparoscopic Surgery

· Obstetrics and Gynecology

. Orthopedic Surgery & Arthroplasty

. Cardiology & Cardiothoracic Surgery

· Pediatrics

· Neurology

· Nephrology & Urology

· ENT

· Ophthalmology

. Laser Cataract Surgery

· Anaesthesiology

. Physiotherapy & Rehabilitation

. Obesity and Fitness Center

. Nutrition And Dietetics

. Master Health Checkup

· Dental Care

· Opticals

---

## Subsection: 24x7 Services

. Accident & Emergency Care

· Comprehensive Intensive Care Unit (CICU)

· Specialized Poison treatment center

· Cath Lab

. Modern Operation theater

. Blood Bank, Dialysis Unit

. Laboratory and pharmacy services

· Radiology ( Digital X-Ray, CT Scan, MRI )

. Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) Ambulance service

## Subsection: Cash Less Treatment

State & Central Govt Health Insurance

Private Health Insurance

---

# Section: ALLIED HEALTH SCIENCE COURSES

Vivekanandha Medical Care Hospital - Allied Health Science College was started in the year 2014. It is a constituent college of Vivekanandha Educational Institutions. Realizing the significant need for expert technologists in the various fields of medicine & Surgery, Vivekanandha Medical Care Hospital - Allied Health Science College, affiliated to The Tamil Nadu

Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, focus on this issue of the tremendous need for such an expert technologists and framed the idea of starting the B.Sc., Allied Health Science Course.

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.Sc. Accident & Emergency Care Technology

B.Sc. Radiography & Imaging Technology

B.Sc. Cardiac Technology

B.Sc. Operation Theatre & Anaesthesia Technology

B.Sc. Physician Assistant

B.Sc. Medical Laboratory Technology

B.Sc. Dialysis Technology

- 3+1 Year Internship

- 3+1 Year Internship

- 3+1 Year Internship

- 3+1 Year Internship

- 3+1 Year Internship

- 3+1 Year Internship

- 3+1 Year Internship

## Subsection: ELIGIBILITY

· 10+2 class pass with Science Physics, Chemistry, Biology (or) Botony and Zoology from recognized board under AISSCE / CBSE / ICSE / SSCE / HSCE or other equivalent Board. Minimum Age Limit : 17 Yrs

## Subsection: DEPARTMENT OF ACCIDENT & EMERGENCY CARE TECHNOLOGY

The Department plays a critical and a key role in the department of Emergency. The concept of emergency medicine is relatively new to the Indian medical world while it has become the back bone of the healthcare system in most developed countries. Emergency Medical team take care of patients presenting with acute emergencies. All the initial resuscitation will be done by the Emergency Medical team comprising of Emergency physician, Technician and other paramedical staff. This course offers mainly towards the initial resuscitation of patient who arrives in the Emergency room. As the number of trauma and natural disasters are increasing day by day, Emergency Medicine has become the need of the hour.

## Subsection: DEPARTMENT OF RADIOGRAPHY AND IMAGING TECHNOLOGY

The radiography program is completely focused and designed with course work and clinical practice for graduates in medical sciences, pursuing their studies specialized to radiography and imaging. B.Sc., inradiographyand Imaging Technology program is suitable for students seeking to expand their horizons and pursue a career field related to medical research & development or technological research in companies that lead to a breakthrough in diagnostic imaging.

Upon completion of this program, students will not only acquire a broad & detailed knowledge in medical imaging, which help them to be a new generation radiologic technologist, but also will have the opportunity to develop important practical skills in organising radiological department.

## Subsection: DEPARTMENT OF CARDIAC TECHNOLOGY

The Cardiac Technologist assists Physician by Current management of various cardiac disorders includes complex diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, which involve use of various equipments, computer hardware, tools, machines, and pharmacological agents. Handling of these equipments and tools as well as their regular maintenance requires advanced and focused knowledge of the scientific principles on which the tests and equipments function, as well as to have hands-on skill in using these equipments correctly and safely. Cardiac Technology is a program with good employment potential both at the national and international levels, as trained echo cardiac technologists are in high demand in corporate hospitals. There is a vast scope for pursuing a career in teaching, research and also opportunities are abound abroad.

## Subsection: DEPARTMENT OF OPERATION THEATRE & ANAESTHESIA TECHNOLOGY

Operation Theatre and Anaesthesia Technology is a specialized healthcare program focused on training professionals to assist in the surgical and anaesthesia departments. Graduates are skilled in preparing and maintaining the operation theatre, ensuring a sterile environment, and handling surgical instruments. The course is aimed at giving comprehensive overview of anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, pharmacology, microbiology, medicine, sterilization techniques and ethics. They are also exposed to work in the outside the regular operating rooms, as in radiology suite, cardiac catheterisation laboratory, endoscopy room, electroconvulsive therapy suite, day care theatre, Intensive Care Units, palliative care and emergency rooms etc. Anaesthesia Technologist are essential in ensuring safe, effective anesthesia care, contributing significantly to positive surgical outcomes and patient safety. On successful completion of the course, the trainees will be competent to assist the anaesthesiologists during routine anaesthesia practice and in emergency scenarios.

## Subsection: DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICIAN ASSISTANT

Physician Assistant program trains healthcare professionals to work closely with doctors in diagnosing and managing patient care. Physician assistants are skilled in conducting physical exams, taking medical histories, and ordering diagnostic tests to support doctors in various clinical settings. They can also assist in minor surgical procedures, provide patient education, and develop treatment plans under a physician's supervision. PAs have a strong foundation in medical sciences, pharmacology, and clinical practice, enabling them to assess patient needs effectively. Their role includes monitoring patient progress and making adjustments to treatment plans when necessary. Physician assistants play a critical role in improving patient access to healthcare, helping reduce workloads on doctors, and enhancing overall care quality in hospitals and clinics.

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF MEDICAL LABORATORY TECHNOLOGY

The Bachelor of Science in Medical Laboratory Technology (BSc MLT) is a specialized program that trains students to perform essential laboratory tests and analyses critical to patient diagnosis and treatment. Medical laboratory technologists are skilled in handling, testing, and analyzing body fluids, tissues, and cells using advanced laboratory equipment. They play a crucial role in detecting diseases, monitoring treatment responses, and aiding in the prevention of illness through accurate diagnostic work. With in-depth knowledge of biochemistry, microbiology, hematology, and immunology, they can identify infections, blood disorders, and other medical conditions. This role requires meticulous attention to detail, problem-solving skills, and a commitment to maintaining laboratory standards and protocols. Medical laboratory technologists are indispensable in healthcare, as their work provides the data essential for diagnosing and managing patient health.

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF DIALYSIS TECHNOLOGY

Dialysis is the technique to artificial purification process of blood. A dialysis technician's main task is to operate the Hemodialysis machine used to perform dialysis for patients suffering from kidney failure. In a healthy human body, the kidney purifies the blood. Other than technical training, subjects like human anatomy and physiology, renal diseases, other relevant diseases, blood chemistry is also covered in this course note down important details like patient's temperature, blood pressure, pulse rate and weight, giving directions to the patient, setting up the dialysis equipment, supervising the purification process, monitoring the patient, calculating, monitoring the blood flow and cleaning and inspection of the dialysis machine. This includes training in haemo- dialysis, peritoneal dialysis, slow low efficiency dialysis and continuous Renal Replacement Therapy, plasma-pheresis including double filtered plasmapheresis and home dialysis. Candidates are trained in wholesome renal care for patients with chronic kidney disease.

---

# Section: KRISHNA INSTITUTE OF OPTOMETRY & RESEARCH (Girls only) ( Approved by Alagappa University, Karaikudi ).

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.Sc. Optometry : 3+1 Years

## Subsection: ELIGIBILITY

+2 Pass with Physics, Chemistry & Biology / Botany & Zoology

The Optometry is a health care profession which deals with the examination, diagnosis, treatment and management of diseases and disorders of the visual system. It is a vision care science.

One can also define it as the science of eye equipment (including lenses and spectacles) which is imbued with the idea of improving the vision of the human eye and remove all kinds of sight obstacles which an individual may experience.

The program is envisaged to develop a multipurpose ophthalmic manpower at paramedical level. The training will enable a student to become a competent person in providing service as an Optician, Optometrist, Refractionist and Ophthalmic Assistant to the community in urban, semi-urban and rural settings in private, semi-Governmental, Governmental sectors and overseas.

---

# Section: VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES FOR WOMEN [ AUTONOMOUS ]

Vivekanandha College of Arts & Sciences for Women (Autonomous) was started in the year 1995, to provide quality education to young and aspiring women students. It is affiliated to Periyar University, approved by AICTE and re-accredited with 'A+' grade by NAAC. It is an ISO 9001 : 2008 Certified Institution, Recognized under section 2(f) and 12(B) of UGC Act. 1956. At present, there are about 6,000 students studying in this college, making it the largest women's college in India. The College was ranked 4th in 2017 "SWACHHTA" Ranking and 5th in 2019 by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Govt.of India among the Cleanest Higher Education Institutions in the Country.

## Subsection: UG COURSES

B.C.A

B.Sc. Computer Science

3 Years

Ph.D. Microbiology

B.Sc. Information Technology

3 Years

Ph.D. Biochemistry

B.Sc. Data Science

3 Years

B.Sc. CS. AI & ML

3 Years

B.Sc. CS. AI & DS*

3 Years

B.Sc. CS. Cyber Security

3 Years

B.Sc. Software Engineering*

3 Years

Ph.D. Physics

B.Sc. Microbiology

3 Years

B.Sc. Biochemistry

3 Years

B.Sc. Biotechnology

3 Years

B.Sc. Botany

3 Years

B.Sc. Zoology

3 Years

B.Sc. Nutrition & Dietetics

3 Years

B.Sc. Mathematics

3 Years

B.Sc. Physics

3 Years

B.Sc. Chemistry

3 Years

B.Sc. Textile & Fashion Designing

3 Years

B.Sc. Costume Design & Fashion

3 Years

Nutrition and Yoga

B.Sc. Psychology

3 Years

B.B.A

3 Years

Bio-Informatics

B.Com

3 Years

Animation

B.Com. (CA)

3 Years

Internet for Everyone

B.Com. Banking & Insurance

3 Years

Office Automation

B.Com. Accounting & Finance

3 Years

Kaniniyum Inaiyamum

B.Com. Professional Accounting

3 Years

B.A. English

3 Years

Noolagaviyal

B.A. Tamil

3 Years

Udagaviyal

B.A. History

3 Years

Bakery and Confectionary Manufacturing

B.A. Political Science

3 Years

B.A. Economics

3 Years

## Subsection: PG COURSES

M.B.A

2 Years

M.C.A

2 Years

M.Sc. Computer Science

2 Years

M.Sc. Microbiology

2 Years

M.Sc. Biochemistry

2 Years

Dye Chemistry

M.Sc. Biotechnology

2 Years

Idhaliyal

M.Sc. Botany

2 Years

Sutrulaviyal

M.Sc. Zoology

2 Years

Programming in C

M.Sc. Mathematics

2 Years

Internet Banking

M.Sc. Physics

2 Years

Internet of Things (IOT)

M.Sc. Chemistry

2 Years

Data Analytics Using R

M.Sc. Costume Design and Fashion

2 Years

E-Commerce Applications

M.Sc. Applied Psychology

2 Years

M.Com.

2 Years

Art of Public Speaking

M.A. Tamil

2 Years

Hand Embroidery

M.A. English

2 Years

Communicative Hindi

## Subsection: Ph.D ( Full Time / Part Time )

Ph.D. Computer Science

Ph.D. Biotechnology

Ph.D. Botany

Ph.D. Zoology

Ph.D. Chemistry

Ph.D. Commerce

Ph.D. English

Ph.D. Tamil

## Value Added Courses

Beautician

Tourism

Stress Management

Fashion Designing and Apparel Manufacturing

Mushroom Cultivation and Organic Farming

Nattupura Nigalthu Kalaigal

Clound Computing and Big data Analytics

PC Hardware and Trouble Shooting

Parambariya Mooligai Maruthuvam

Dye Chemistry

---

# Section: VIVEKANANDHA ARTS AND SCIENCE COLLEGE FOR WOMEN (Sankagiri Campus )

Vivekanandha Arts and Sciences College for Women was started in 2004 and became a premier institutions in 2014 to provide quality education to young and aspiring girl students. This institution is affiliated to Periyar University and is approved by the Govt. of Tamil Nadu.

## Subsection: UG COURSES

B.C.A.

3 Years

B.Sc. Textile and Fashion Design

3 Years

B.Sc. Computer Science

3 Years

B.Sc. Costume Design and Fashion 3 Years

B.Sc. A.I. & D.S.

3 Years

B.Sc. Mathematics

3 Years

B.Sc. Cyber Security*

3 Years

B.B.A.

3 Years

B.Sc. Internet of Things*

3 Years

B.Com.

3 Years

B.Sc. Microbiology

3 Years

B.Com. (C.A)

3 Years

B.Sc. Biochemistry

3 Years

B.Com. E - Commerce*

3 Years

B.Sc. Biotechnology

3 Years

B.Com. Business Analytics*

3 Years

B.Sc. Physics

3 Years

B.A. Tamil

3 Years

B.Sc. Chemistry

3 Years

B.A. English

3 Years

B.Sc. Nutrition & Dietetics

3 Years

---

# Section: Department of Computer Science & Computer Applications

The Department of Computer Science is the back bone of technological innovation continues to transform industries, shape economies and improves daily lives. The department is dedicated for providing students with a solid foundation in computational theory, practical skills, and the latest technologies. We prepare our students to become leaders in an ever - evolving digital world. Our curriculum is regularly updated to reflect the latest trends in technology, ensuring students gain relevant skills in areas such as artificial intelligence, cyber security, and data science. Learn from industry - experienced professors and researches who are passionate about teaching and mentoring students. We emphasize practical experience through labs, projects, internships, and industry collaborations. Engage in research projects in area like machine learning, block chain, cloud computing, and Internet of Things (IOT). Access to career counseling, industry connections, and job placement service to help students secure top-tier positions. At the forefront of technological innovation, we prepare the forthcoming generation leaders for SIH (Smart India Hackathon) Microsoft Certificate, Online Certificate, Mongo DB, NPTEL, Skill Development Course such as Robotics, Web designing etc. to enhance their knowledge in this technical world.

## Subsection: Accelerate Towards Career:

+ Software Developer

+ Database Administrator

+ Application Developer

+ Data Scientist

+ Web Developer

+ Graphics Designer

+ Cyber security Analyst

+ Information Security Analyst

+ Computer System Analyst

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.Sc. Computer Science

B.Sc. Information Technology

B.Sc. Data Science

B.Sc. Cyber Security

B.Sc. A.I. & M.L.

B.Sc. A.I & DS

B.Sc. Internet of Things*

B.Sc. Software Engineering*

B.C.A. ( Bachelor of Computer Applications) M.C.A. ( Master of Computer Applications)

M.Sc. Computer Science Ph.D. ( Full Time / Part Time )

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

The Department aims to cultivate young minds and promote continuous learning in order to perform better and prepare them to handle the difficulties of the IT sector. Thus the students have good opportunities in various fields like Software Engineering, Software Developing, Programming, Database Administration, Network Engineering, System Designing, Application Software Developing, Android and iphone App Developing and Web Designing and the students are able to plan their career in Information Technology Industry, Banking Sector, Government Sector and also Teaching Profession.

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF MICROBIOLOGY

The Department of Microbiology aims to develop high quality Microbiologists. The main motto is to produce good academicians, globally competent researchers, scientists and entrepreneurs. The department recognized as DST-FIST sponsored department has a high quality infrastructure and upgraded laboratory facilities including HPLC, AAS etc.,

## Subsection: Job Opportunities in

+ Pharma industries

+ Dairy industries

+ Diagnostic Laboratories

+ Agricultural industries

+ Hospitals & Health care

## Subsection: In Government Sectors such as

+ National laboratories

+ Forensic Laboratories

+ Pollution Control Board

+ District Microbiologists

+ Food Safety Officer

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.Sc. Microbiology M.Sc. Microbiology Ph.D ( Full Time / Part Time )

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF BIOTECHNOLOGY

Biotechnology represents a sophisticated, interdisciplinary domain that harnesses biological sciences to forge technologies and products enhancing human life. This field amalgamates knowledge from molecular biology, genetics, microbiology, and biochemistry to drive innovations across healthcare, agriculture, and environmental sustainability, genetic engineering including methodologies such as gene editing, bioinformatics dedicated to the analysis of extensive biological datasets and bioprocessing emphasizes the development of sustainable production techniques, AI applications like AlphaFold, have revolutionized protein structure prediction, significantly impacting drug development and molecular biology.

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

Biotechnology offers broad career opportunities across leading corporations, universities, government agencies, and research institutes, driving global advancements in health, agriculture, environmental sustainability, and industrial innovation.

+ Pharmaceutical Companies

+ Agricultural Corporations

+ Universities

+ Research Institutes

+ Private Companies

+ Biotech Companies

+ Food Safety Officer

+ Forensic Officer

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.Sc. Biotechnology

Ph.D ( Full Time / Part Time )

M.Sc. Biotechnology

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF BIOCHEMISTRY

The Department of Biochemistry is well established department in VICAS since 1995. The department provides under graduate, Post graduate and Research programmes through well experienced faculties with their specialization in biochemical carcinogenesis, biochemical toxicology, enzymology, plant therapeutics, clinical biochemistry. The department is in tie ups with International Universities like Mahsa University, Asia Pacific University of Technology & Innovation, Malaysia.

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

Pharma Industry Data Scientists Bioinformatics

Teaching

Food Industry

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.Sc. Biochemistry

Health & Safety Inspector

Health Care Scientist

Bioprocess Developers

Stem Cell Engineering

Bioassay Managers

M.Sc. Biochemistry

Forensic Scientists Laboratory Analyst Medical Coding Pharmacologist

Ph.D. ( Full Time / Part Time )

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.Sc. Physics

Ph.D. ( Full Time / Part Time )

M.Sc. Physics

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY

The Department of Chemistry (DST-FIST & CURIE Sponsored) has experienced significant growthin teaching and research program. Students are trained in the subjects like Analytical Chemistry, Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, Organic Chemistry, Natural Product Chemistry, Bio- inorganic Chemistry, Water Analysis, Polymer Chemistry, Isolation and Characterization techniques in conjunction with analytical techniques to solve the problem with molecular perspective and to acquire skills to compete with the quality control processes in the industry.

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

+ Pharmaceutical industries

+ Oil Refineries

+ Food industries

+ National Laboratories

+ Medical Laboratories

+ Drug manufacturing companies

+ Polymer synthesis units

+ Dye and Textile industries

+ Teaching and Research Professions

+ Professional schools

+ Essential oil and Spice extraction units

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS

The Department of Physics is dedicated to exploring the fundamental laws of nature and understanding how they govern the universe. As one of the most fundamental scientific disciplines, Physics involves the study of the properties of matter and its behavior in space and time, across length scales ranging from subatomic to galactic and time scales ranging from picoseconds to billions of years. The department emphasizes research and incorporates interactive learning tools.

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

* Radiologist
* Computational Physicist
* Research Associate
* Data Scientist
* Laser Engineer
* Astronomer
* Medical Research Scientist
* Health Physics Technician
* Physics - Teacher or Professor
* Forensic Scientists
* Nanotechnology
* Nuclear Physicist
+ Physical Scientist ISRO, DRDO, NIO, PRL, NSC., etc.

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.Sc. Chemistry

M.Sc. Chemisty

Ph.D. ( Full Time / Part Time )

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY

DST-FIST sponsored PG and Research Department of Botany was established in 2004. Botany includes diversified fields such as Plant Diversity, Plant Taxonomy, Plant Ecology, Plant Biotechnology, Herbal Botany, Mushroom Cultivation, Phytochemistry, Research Methodology, Biostatistics, Organic Farming, The department holds well equipped laboratories, Plant Tissue Culture Laboratories, Modernized Instruments like Photo Microscopic Unit, Microtome, Spectrophotometer, Centrifuge etc., with smart classrooms. The department has Mushroom Cultivation Unit, Botanical Garden, Organic Vegetable Garden, Herbarium Unit and Medicinal Garden. Collaborative Research work with National and International Institutes like BSI, IFGTB, SBI, Cotton Research Centre etc.,

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

Career Opportunities for both State Govt. & Central Govt. of Plant Explorer, Conservationist, Botanist, Survey Officer, Research Officer, Ecologist, Environment Consultant, Horticulturist, Plant Biochemist, Molecular Biologist, Plant Taxonomist, Field Botanist, School Teacher, College Professor, Food Corporation of India (FCI), JRF/SRF/RA in Govt. Research Institutes, Botanical Survey of India (BSI), State Forest Department, Agricultural Department, Plant Quarantine, Mushroom Cultivation, Medicinal Plant Cultivation, Nursery garden & Organic Farming, Edible Plant Cultivation.

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.Sc. Botany

Ph.D. ( Full Time / Part Time )

M.Sc. Botany

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.Sc. Zoology M.Sc. Zoology

Ph.D. ( Full Time / Part Time )

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY

The DST-FIST sponsored Department of Zoology was established in the year 1995. The UG programme provides a strong foundation in the basic concepts of Animal Diversity, Cell Biology, Genetics, Animal Physiology, Developmental Biology, Ecology, Evolution, Biochemical aspects of animals, Agricultural Entomology, Immunology, Vermitechnology, Sericulture, Aquaculture and Applied Zoology. Both UG and PG students are exposed to Research Laboratories and Industries through compulsory Internship programmes, industrial visits and field visits which enable them to be abreast of the current trends and needs.

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

The graduates have good opportunities in the Zoological Survey of India, Teachers in Education institutions etc., and will become a Taxonomist, Animal Behaviorist, Conservationist, Wildlife Biologist, Zoo Curator, Wildlife Education, Forensic experts, lab technicians, and Veterinarians. Zoologist have bright future in medical coding, medical billing and medical transcription fields.

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.Com

B.Com (CA)

B.Com., Banking & Insurance B.Com., Accounting & Finance

B.Com., Professional Accounting B.Com., E - Commerce* B.Com., Business Analytics* M.Com.,

Ph.D., ( Full Time / Part Time )

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF MANAGEMENT STUDIES

The Department of Management Studies at Vivekanandha College of Arts & Sciences for Women (Autonomous) is dedicated to empowering women to become dynamic leaders and entrepreneurs in the global business arena. With a legacy of excellence and a commitment to fostering holistic development, we offer industry-relevant programs in Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) and Master of Business Administration (MBA) designed to shape the leaders of tomorrow.

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

VICAS MBA has always been successful in fulfilling the dreams of young aspiring women managers by placing them in the leading companies of India such as INFOSYS, TCS, Wipro, etc., Capgemini Tech Mahindra, Mobious, Accenture, IDBI, Proving on the Job Training in the reputed companies at their dream jobs. The department has an impeccable track record of achieving excellent placements every year. There has also been a steady increase in the number of companies recruiting from VICAS - MBA every year.

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

Department of Commerce was established in the year 1995 with the aim of enriching learning experiences to aspiring young women scholars with knowledge of accountancy, trade activities, computer applications, auditing of accounts and research activities. The Department signed MOU with Professional Institutions such as The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) Salem Chapter, MTC Global, Bangalore, Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA), Dhaka International University, Bangladesh. The Department provides Exclusive Coaching for ICWA, CA, ACS, IAS & TNPSC, NET/SET, IBPS and Placement drives.

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

The course has been selected by students for the doors it opens to a wide variety of careers such as Accountant, Accountant Executive, Chartered Accountant, Company Secretary, Cost Accountant, Finance Analyst, Finance Planner, Finance Manager, Finance Controller, Finance Consultant, Investment Analyst, Share Market Consultant, Portfolio Manager, Tax Auditor, Tax Consultant, Auditor, Statistician and Economist, Human Resource Manager, Certified Financial Planner and Venture capitalist.

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH

The English Department ENGLISH was established in 2003. B.A. in English program, initiated to foster a love for language and literature, has paved the way for our M.A. in English, launched in 2006. Our vision is to cultivate a rich understanding of English language and literature, empowering women to excel in their academic and professional pursuits. Literary Lens, the Research Club, aims at training the students in publishing their research papers. Students acquire soft skills through skill-based courses such as English for Competitive Examinations, Spoken English, Business English, Word Power, Technical & Creative Writing Skills and Interview Skills. The Department has facilities for UG, PG and Research students such as Advanced Communication Lab, Research Digital Library, and ICT Smart classrooms. Skill- based courses such as English for Competitive Examinations, Spoken English, Reading Skills, Business English, Word Power, Interview Skills, The Art of Public Speaking and Writing Skills are made inter-disciplinary through provisions for horizontal movement, motivating the students of other Departments to join these courses

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

+ Teaching and Academia

+ Content Writing

+ Editor & Reporter

+ Media and Journalism

+ Public Relations

+ Corporate Communication

+ Translators

+ Career Prospects in Abroad

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.A., English

M.A., English

Ph.D. (Full Time / Part Time)

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS

Mathematics is considered to be the Queen of Sciences and language of Nature. Mathematics is an indispensable subject of study. It plays an important role in forming the basis of all other sciences. It is the branch of science that uses numbers and symbols. The aim of the Department is to offer enriching learning experiences to aspiring young women scholars and to ensure special talents in various domains of mathematics.

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

Studying Mathematics helps to develop skills in logical thinking, problem solving and decision making, which are valued by employers across many job sectors. There are more demands for Mathematicians in many countries. After Degree Mathematicians have immense job opportunities in TNPSC - Statistical Investigator, Block Health Statistician etc. They can have jobs in Government and Private Banks. They have opportunities in School level and College level teaching. The other important job sectors for Mathematicians are Actuarial Analyst, Chartered Accountant, Data Analyst, Research Assistant, System Developer, Space Science and Astronomy.

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.Sc. Mathematics M.Sc. Mathematics

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.A., Tamil

M.A., Tamil

Ph.D. ( Full Time / Part Time )

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF TAMIL

The classical Tamil language is the mother tongue of all the world languages, from the Sangam period to modern times. Tamil has been the root of the global language confluence. The B.A., and M.A., Tamil graduates have wide opportunity and employability in Arts, Literature, Journalism, language translation and as writers both domestically and abroad. The Tamil language is the main language for all kinds of competitive exams. The unique opportunity available in the whole Tamil Nadu is that, the Department of Tamil and Vetri IAS Academy, Chennai is collaborating in offering FREE TNPSC Coaching @ VICAS

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

+ Teacher

+ Govt. Department

+ Speaker

+ TNPSC - Coaching

+ Archeology

+ Writer

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF TEXTILE AND FASHION DESIGNING & COSTUME DESIGN AND FASHION

The Department of Textile and Fashion Designing & Costume Design and Fashion was established in 2020, is dedicated to fostering creativity, technical skills, and professional knowledge in the fields of textiles and fashion. The department aims to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of textile production, fashion design, and apparel manufacturing, blending traditional craftsmanship with modern technology. The department offers a well-rounded curriculum that integrates design principles, garment construction, textile science, and fashion illustration. Through practical workshops, students learn pattern drafting, fabric manipulation, and the latest design software. The program also emphasizes sustainable fashion, encouraging students to explore eco-friendly practices in the fashion industry. The department has a strong focus on placements, leveraging its industry partnerships to connect students with top employers in the fashion and textile sectors.

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

+ Fashion Designer

+ Costume Designer

+ Fashion Illustrator

+ Fashion Stylist

+ Quality Control Manager

+ Textile Designer

+ Apparel Production Manager

+ Retail Buyer/Merchandiser

+ Pattern Maker

+ Boutique Management

B.Sc. Textile and Fashion

Designing B.Sc. Costume Design and Fashion M.Sc. Costume Design and Fashion

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF NUTRITION AND DIETETICS

The Department of Nutrition and dietetics is a vibrant and ambitious as it is considered as the heart of science which has the most fascinating subjects dealing with nourishment of life. The subject deals with the identification of link between food. water, nutrients, metabolism, absorption and utilization in the human body. Exercise and diet are interrelated which helps to transform and enhance the quality of life. This programme also indulges the students to have a vast experience in the field of research and product development. In addition to that we also identity and bring out the talents of the young minds.

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

The Department offers a broad based multi disciplinary course guaranteeing employment in a variety of sectors viz., hospitals, healthcare, Clinical trails, Food analyst, Consultant with in FSSAI, technical labelling analyst, Clinical database, Medical coding, Dietary sectors, Pharmaceutical, Food and agricultural industries, Scientific research prospects and various opportunities are available. In addition to that, employment offers could also be found in Star hotels, Research laboratory, Health care sectors clubs, Canteen, Nursing homes and the can also work as consultants in private practicing sector.

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.Sc. Nutrition and Dietetics 

M.Sc. Nutrition and Dietetics*

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF POLITICAL SCIENCE

Established in 2017 to fulfill the aspirations of the students in seeking career avenues in the discipline of political science. Primary objective of the department is to make the students aware of structural context within which the political scenario takes place, including the role of the economy, society, culture & conflicts that shapes between & within the countries. In order to achieve the established objectives the department has developed many crucial linkages with the higher educational institutions, research institutes, NGOs nationally and internationally.

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

Intensive coaching for UPSC, TNPSC, IBPS, UGC & other competitive examinations fetch lucrative employment opportunities in the organized sector & apart from that the career avenues on successful completion of this degree includes Policy Analyst, Legislative Assistant, Public Relations Specialist, Social Media Manager, Marketing Research Analyst, Political Consultant, Attorney, Intelligence Analyst, Political Campaign consultant & many more.

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMICS

Established in 2021, the Department of Economics has rapidly emerged as one of the most dynamic and vibrant departments within the institution. The Core courses include Microeconomics, Macroeconomics, Development Economics, International Economics, Agricultural Economics, Fiscal Economics, Environmental Economics, Basic Econometrics, and Mathematical Economics, ensuring a well-rounded and diverse learning experience.In addition, the department provides dual training and coaching for TNPSC exams in collaboration with VETRI IAS Academy, fostering both academic excellence and professional development.

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

Economists in government statistical departments, investment analysts, advisors on cost estimations in business enterprises, and actuarial analysts Economist roles include auditor, stockbroker, insurer, business manager, retail merchandiser, pricing analyst, statistician, financial consultant, and salesperson.

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY

The Department of History was established in the year 2016. This is one among the most distinguished department in our prestigious institution. The department is successful enough in engaging the students to study the contemporary social issues with historical perspectives critically. Classroom interactions are great occasions that develops skills such as writing, critical thinking, ability to incorporate innumerable details and complex arguments on historical perspective. The exploration of past issues help students to acquire necessary tools to emulate solutions to societal problems. The experts from various fields of history as well as related disciplines are regularly invited to make presentation. The department also screens stage plays and publishes magazines of historical significance. A couple of guided tours to place of historical importance in various parts of the country are made every year. The wide array of talks, discussion, publications and tour kept in tandem with the conception of facilitating great career opportunity to the graduates of history. Library and the other learning resources like smart classes, Digital Study, Materials and the conductive learning environment make the learning celebration.

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

Career Avenues for History graduates includes Archaeologist, Museology, Curators, Archivists, Historians, History experts, Teachers, Civil services and many more.

---

# Section: DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHOLOGY

Students learn about numerous branches of psychology including Clinical Psychology, Guidance and Counselling, Child Development , Health Psychology , Bio-Psychology , and Organizational Psychology . The Main Emphasis is placed on fostering the students on the skills and attitudes needed to be competent and socially sensitive psychologists including a self- reflexive attitude, critical thinking, empathy and a respect for individual differences. Pedagogical techniques include Field visits , Internships , Case-study Analysis and extensive use of Audio-visual mediums along with Seminar presentations

## Subsection: Job Opportunities

A wide range of job opportunities is available in both government and non-government sectors, including positions such as Rehabilitation Officer, Clinical Psychologist, District Child Protection Officer, Prison Psychologist, Women and Child Welfare Officer, School Psychologist, Probation Officer, Marital Counselor, Forensic Psychologist, Scientist at the Defense Research and Development Organization (DRDO), teaching roles in schools and colleges, Psychologist in the District Mental Health Program, and Psychotherapist and Counsellor .

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.Sc. Psychology

M.Sc. Applied Psychology

B.A. Political Science

B.A. Economics

B.A. History

---

# Section: ELIGIBILITY - Undergraduate Programmes

## Subsection: B.Sc. Computer Science / B.C.A./B.Sc. IT/ Data Science / Cyber Security / A.I. & M.L./ A.I. & D.S./ loT / Software Engineering

A pass in Higher Secondary Examination with Mathematics or Business Mathematics or Computer Science or Statistics or Computer Application (Academic stream or Vocational stream) as one of the subjects conducted by the Government of Tamilnadu or any other Examination accepted as equivalent thereto by the syndicate.

## Subsection: B.Sc. Biotechnology / B.Sc. Microbiology / B.Sc. Biochemistry

A pass in Higher Secondary Examination (Academic or Vocational) conducted by the Government of Tamilnadu, or an examination accepted as equivalent by the syndicate of the Periyar University. (Preference will be given to those who have studied Chemistry, Botany, Zoology or Biology in Academic stream). For B.Sc. Bio-Chemistry, Chemistry is mandatory.

## Subsection: B.Sc. Physics

A pass in Higher secondary examination of Tamilnadu Higher Secondary Board or some other Board accepted by the syndicate as equivalent thereto with Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry as one of the subjects.

## Subsection: B.Sc. Chemistry

A Pass in Higher Secondary Examination with Chemistry and Physics, with any one of the following Subjects namely Mathematics, Botany, Zoology or Biology.

## B.Sc. Botany

A Pass in Higher Secondary Examination (Academic or vocational) stream with Botany or Biology along with Chemistry conducted by the Govt. of Tamilnadu or an examination accepted as equivalent.

## Subsection: B.Sc. Zoology

A Pass in Higher Secondary Examination with Botany, Zoology, Biology with chemistry as study subjects.

## Subsection: B.Sc. Mathematics

A Pass in Higher Secondary Examination or any other equivalent there to with Mathematics (other than business Mathematics) as one of the subjects or Electronics as one of the paper in vocational stream conducted by the Government of Tamilnadu.

---

# Section: B.Sc. Textile & Fashion Designing / Costume Design & Fashion

A Pass in any Higher Secondary Examination conducted by the Government of Tamilnadu or any other examination accepted as equivalent there to by the syndicate. A Pass in any Textile / Fashion / Costume / Apparel related Diploma Course is eligible to admit in direct second year of this UG course.

## Subsection: B.Sc. Nutrition and Dietetics

Pass in Higher Secondary Examination with Nutrition or Dietetics or Home Science or Chemistry or Biology as one of the subjects.

## Subsection: B.Sc. Psychology

A Pass in Higher Secondary Examination conducted by the Government of Tamilnadu or Any other examination accepted as equivalent thereto by the Syndicate.

## Subsection: B.Com

Candidate for admission to the first year of the B.Com degree programme shall be required to have passed the higher secondary examination (Academic or Vocational) conducted by the Govt. of Tamilnadu in the relevant subjects Accountancy/ Commerce.

## Subsection: B.B.A

The eligibility for a student to join BBA course shall be a pass in HSC. Preference should be given for commerce and accountancy streams.

## Subsection: B.Com(CA)/B.Com(A&F)/B.Com(B&I) /B.Com (Personal Accounting) / B.Com(E-Commerce) / B.Com (Business Analytics)

Any one of the subjects must be studied at the +2 level Accountancy / Commerce / Mathematics / Business Mathematics / Statistics / Computer Science.

## Subsection: B.A. Economics

Candidate for admission to the first year of the UG degree programme shall be required to have passed the higher secondary examination (Academic or Vocational) conducted by the Govt. of Tamilnadu or other examinations accepted as equivalent thereto.

## Subsection: B.A. English / B.A. History / B.A. Political Science

A Pass in Higher Secondary Examination conducted by the Government of Tamilnadu or Any other examination accepted as equivalent thereto by the Syndicate.

## B.A. Tamil

இளங்கலை தமிழ் இலக்கிய பட்ட வகுப்பில் சேர விண்ணப்பிப்போர் பன்னிரண்டாம் வகுப்பில் தமிழை மொழிப்பாடமாகப் படித்துத் தேர்ச்சி பெற்றிருத்தல் வேண்டும். +2 பாடத்திட்டத்தில் சிறப்புப் தமிழ் படித்தோருக்கு முன்னுரிமை வழங்குதல் வேண்டும்.

Age Limit : The upper age limit for admission to UG Degree Courses will be 21 years as on 1st July of every calender year. However a relaxation of 5 years is permitted for differently abled as per GO.MS.No. 239 S.W. dated 3.9.93 and SC/ST/BC/MBC/DNC candidates and women candidates may be allowed the relaxation of 3 years beyond 21 years for the admission into UG Courses.

## Subsection: ELIGIBILITY - Postgraduate Programmes

## Subsection: M.C.A. Master of Computer Applications

Candidates who have passed in any one of the following or equivalent are eligible to apply:

i) Bachelor's degree (under 10+2+3/4) in any subject with Mathematics at +2 level.

ii) Bachelor's degree (under 10+2+3/4 or 10+3 year Diploma + 3 year later entry BE) in any subject with Mathematics / Business Mathematics / Statistics as one of the subjects.

Should have appeared for AIMCET / TANCET / Any approve entrance examination.

## Subsection: M.B.A. Master of Business Administration

Pass in any Degree. Should have appeared for MAT / TANCET / Any approved entrance examination.

## M.Sc. Computer Science

A Pass in B.Sc. Degree in Computer Science or B.C.A. / B.Sc. Computer Technology / B.Sc. Information Science / B.Sc. Information Technology of Periyar University or any of the above degrees of other universities recognized by the Syndicate as equivalent thereto.

## Subsection: M.Sc. Microbiology

Candidate who has passed the B.Sc. degree in any Life Sciences Microbiology /Applied Microbiology / Industrial Microbiology / Botany / Plant Sciences and Plant Biotechnology / Zoology / Animal Science / Applied Animal Science and Animal Biotechnology / Biochemistry / Bioinformatics / Biology / Life Sciences / Home Science / Food Science & Nutrition BSMS / BAMS / BUMS / Chemistry with Botany / Zoology as Allied Subjects of this University or an Examination of any other University accepted by the Syndicate as equivalent thereto.

## M.Sc. Biochemistry

A Candidate who has passed the three year B.Sc. Degree in Biochemistry or an Equivalent B.Sc. Examination in Bachelor in Medical Laboratory Course or some other B.Sc. board equivalence submitted by the respective University may be accepted by the syndicate as equivalent thereto.

## Subsection: M.Sc. Biotechnology

A candidate who has passed a Bachelor degree in Science with Biotechnology / Botany / Zoology / Biology / Microbiology / Microbial Gene technology / Bio-instrumentation / Bioinformatics / Biochemistry / Chemistry / Agriculture / Marine Biology / Home science / Fame Science / Nutrition and Dietetics / Integrative Biology / Plant Science / Animal Science / Fisheries Science / Aquaculture / Mathematics with Physics, Chemistry as Ancillary / Medical Lab Technology / MBBS / BDS / B.Pharm / BSMS of this University or any of the above degree of any other University accepted by syndicates as equivalent thereto.

## Subsection: M.Sc. Physics

A Candidate should have passed B.Sc. Degree Examination in Physics or B.Sc. Applied Physics of this University or any bachelor examinations of some other universities recognised by the syndicate as equivalent thereto.

## Subsection: M.Sc. Costume Design & Fashion

A pass in any B.Sc. Degree in Costume Design and Fashion / Textile and Fashion Designing Fashion related Course.

## Subsection: M.Sc. Chemistry

A candidate should have passed B.Sc. Chemistry and B.Sc. Applied Chemistry, B.Sc. Industrial Chemistry in any of the UGC recognized university.

## Subsection: M.Sc. Applied Psychology

A candidate who has passed any UG (Bachelors) degree of this University or an examination of any other University accepted by the syndicate as equivalent shall be permitted to appear and qualify for the MSc. Applied Psychology. Preference will be given to the candidate with B.A./B.Sc. degree in Psychology.

## Subsection: M.Sc. Botany

A candidate who has passed B.Sc. degree in Botany or Botany Vocational Biotechnology or other related degree of any other University accepted by the syndicate as equivalent thereto.

## Subsection: M.Sc. Zoology

A candidate who have passed B.Sc. degree with Zoology Marine biology will be eligible for admission to this course.

## Subsection: M.Sc. Mathematics

The Candidate should Pass in B.Sc., Degree in Maths / Maths (CA) from a recognized University.

## Subsection: M.Sc. Nutrition and Dietetics

An under graduate degree in Food & Nutrition/ Nutrition & Dietetics / Food science & Nutrition / Clinical nutrition & Dietetics / Nutrition, Food service management & Dietetics / Home Science.

## Subsection: M.Com

A Pass in B.Com. B.Com. (CA), B.Com (e-com),B.B.A, B.B.M, /B.B.M (CA), B.Com. (Corporate Secretaryship), B.Com. (Corporate Secretaryship) with CA, BCS, BCS (CA), B.A (Corporate Secretaryship), B.A (Corporate Secretaryship) with CA, B.Sc. (Computer Science), B.C.A and B.Com (Coperation)

## Subsection: M.A. Tamil.

பெரியார் பல்கலைக்கழகத்தில் தமிழ்க் கலையியல் இளையர் (B.A., Branch XII Tamil) இலக்கியவியல் இளையர் (B.Lit.) பட்டம் பெற்றவர்களும் கலையியல் இளையர் (B.A.,) அறிவியல் இளையர் பட்டப்படிப்புகளில் (B.Sc.,) பகுதி - 1 இல் தமிழ் பயின்று தேர்ச்சி பெற்றவர்களும், பெரியார் பல்கலைக்கழக ஆட்சிக்குழுவால் ஏற்கப்பட்ட பிற பல்கலைக்கழகங்களில் மேற்குறிப்பிடப்பட்ட பட்டங்களுக்கு இணையான பட்டம் பெற்றவர்களும் தமிழ் முதுகலையில் (M.A.,) சேரத் தகுதி உடையவர்கள். தமிழ்க் கலையியல் இளையர் (B.A., Branch XII Tamil) இலக்கியவியல் இளையர் பட்டம் (B.Lit.) பாரதிதாசன் பல்கலைக்கழகம் வழங்கும் மூன்றாண்டுப் புலவர் பட்டம் (இவர்கள் தொல்பொருளியல், நாடகவியல் ஆகிய இருதாள்களைக் கூடுதலாக எழுதித் தேர்ச்சி பெற்றிருக்க வேண்டும்). பெற்றவர்களுக்குச் சேர்க்கையில் முன்னுரிமை வழங்கப்பெறும். பிற கலையியல் இளையர் பட்டங்களையும் (B.A, B.Com.) அறிவியல் இளையர் பட்டங்களையும் (B.Sc.) பெற்றவர்கள் பகுதி - 1 தமிழில் ஐம்பது விழுக்காட்டிற்குக் குறையாமல் மதிப்பெண்கள் பெற்றிருத்தல் அவசியம்.

## Subsection: M.A. English / M.A. Political Science

A candidate who passed any Bachelor degree of this University or any Bachelor degree of any Other University accepted by the syndicate as equivalent thereto.

Age limit : No upper Age Limit.

## Subsection: Ph.D.

Full time Ph.D.

- 55% marks in PG

- 50% marks for SC / ST Candidates

Part-time Ph.D. - Teachers or Non-teachers working in any organisation. Teachers - Two years teaching experience is needed Non - Teachers - Four years working experience is needed

## Subsection: Entrance Examination for Ph.D

Candidates who have appeared for the examination in above mentioned post graduate program can also apply. However, such candidates will be allowed to appear for the entrance test only provisionally. Their applications will be considered subject to submission of their final results within a prescribed time stipulated by the Department and fulfillment of the minimum eligibility requirements.

---

# Section: VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF EDUCATION FOR WOMEN KRISHNA COLLEGE OF EDUCATION WOMEN KRISHNASHREE COLLEGE OF EDUCATION FOR WOMEN Tiruchengode Campus

Vivekanandha College of Education for Women, sponsored by Angammal Educational Trust, started in 2005, is functioning successfully. Krishna College of Education for Women, Krishnashree College of Education for Women, both are sponsored by Krishna Educational & Charitable Trust started functioning from the year 2006 and 2008 respectively. Rabindranath Tagore College of Education for Women & Viswabharathi College of Education for Women both sponsored by Rabindranath Tagore Educational & Charitable Trust started functioning from the year 2005 and 2007 respectively. These colleges are recognized by the Government of Tamil Nadu, approved by NCTE (National Council for Teacher Education) and affiliated to Tamilnadu Teachers Education University, Chennai. Vivekanandha, Krishna & Rabindranath Tagore College of Education for Women have received NAAC Accredition.

## Subsection: COURSES OFFERED

B.Ed. - 2 Years

M.Ed. - 2 Years

## Subsection: OPTIONAL SUBJECTS

· English

· Tamil

· Mathematics

· Physical Science

· Biological Science

· Commerce

· History

· Computer Science

· Economics

---

# Section: ELIGIBILITY

## Subsection: B.Ed.

The candidate should have passed the UG Degree examination in the 10+2+3 stream, with the same main subject in Part III, for which she is seeking admission to the B.Ed. Course.

Candidates who have taken more than one main subject in Part III (Double or Triple major) of the U.G. degree have to choose only one of the main subjects and apply for that optional in B.Ed.

Candidates who have done their U.G. degree in Applied Mathematics can apply for Mathematics.

Candidates who have done their U.G. degree in Applied Chemistry, Applied Physics, Geo-Physics, Bio-Physics and Electronics can apply for Physical Science in B.Ed.

Candidates who have done their U.G. degree in Environmental Science, Bio-Technology, Plant Bio-Technology, Plant Biology and Microbiology can apply for Biological Science in B.Ed.

Candidates who have done their UG degree in Computer Science, Information Technology & Computer Application can apply for computer Science.

Marks obtained by the candidates in the UG Degree courses Part III Major and Allied including Practicals alone shall be taken into account to arrive at the percentage of marks mentioned.

Commerce & Economics Candidates are eligible with UG degree be admitted only if they are qualified with Pg Degree.

Candidates belonging to OC - 50%, BC - 45%, MBC - 43% & SC/ST - 40% in the relevant UG Degree course.

Candidates with at least fifty five percent marks either in the Bachelor's Degree in Engineering or Technology with specialization in Science and Mathematics are eligible for admission for the two year B.Ed., degree programme. All the B.E./B.Tech./M.E/M.Tech., graduates irrespective of their branch in Engineering are eligible to study either mathematics or Physical Science as Pedagogy of a School Subject. Apart from the B.E./B.Tech./M.E./M.Tech., graduates in computer Science related branches and Bio-Technology related branches are also eligible to study Computer Science and Biological Science as pedagogy of a school subject respectively.

However, the basis of selection shall be in accordance with the regulations of the University / Government of Tamilnadu guidelines for admission to B.Ed course in force from time to time.

No Age Limit

## Subsection: M.Ed.

A Pass in B.Ed. Degree of Tamil Nadu Teachers Education or any other recognized University with 50% of marks in Theory and Practical separately.

---

# Section: Facilities
## Subsection: LANGUAGE LAB

The Institute has a language lab offering effective training to improve the communication skills such as listening, reading, speaking and writing. The lab functions on the concept of computer aided language learning which enables the students to learn English, German, French etc., which helps the students to get placed nationally and globally. The students are also given training for TOEFL / GRE / IELTS etc.

## Subsection: COMMUNICATION CENTRE

Satellite linked Internet centres are available at all colleges and hostels. The network systems are configured to allow individual Internet access from all the computers. Students have extensive and free and unlimited access to Internet surfing and mailing. ( wifi campus ).

## Subsection: EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES

Cultural activities are encouraged in the college and a group of staff members guide, help and conduct activities like car driving, Music, Dance, Debate etc. Intercollegiate and interdepartmental cultural programmes are being conducted every year and this has improved the overall development of the students.

## Subsection: SPORTS

Vivekanandha Educational Institutions are evincing keen interest in developing the sports activities of the students inside the campus. Students are provided with all the facilities to participate actively in sports and games at district, state and national level. Athletic, Volleyball, Shuttle grounds and modern gym are major highlights of facilities

## Subsection: BEAUTY PARLOUR

Threadings, Waxing, Hair Cuts, Hair Dyes, Mehandi, Facial Varieties, Hair Treatment, Head Massage, Spa Varieties, Bridal Packeges are done inside our college campus.

## Subsection: A/C AUDITORIUM & A/C SEMINAR HALL

Here is a Campus auditorium A/C with a capacity for accommodating 5000 students. In addition, each college has its own A/C Seminar Halls to conduct National, International Seminars & Conferences.

## Subsection: ASSOCIATION ACTIVITIES

All the departments of the Institutions have their own associations. They are involved in various curricular activities like special lectures by eminent personalities from industries / Academics, National Level Seminars, Group Discussions, workshops etc

## Subsection: KNOWLEDGE CENTRE

Knowledge centre has been established at our Institute for the Students to update their knowledge in software field by learning additional software courses apart from the regular course.

## Subsection: MERIT SCHOLARSHIP

Vivekanandha Educational Institutions offers merit scholarships to the Economically backward, Orphaned, Differently abled & Meritorious students every year based on the Talent examination.

## Subsection: VIVEKANANDHA - VETRI IAS ACADEMY

Students are trained for IAS, IPS, IBPS (Banking Exam), Railway

Exam, TNPSC examinations etc., during their studies for better placements.

## Subsection: HOSTEL

One of the prime concerns of Vivekanandha is to ensure happiness of every student. No stone has been left unturned in providing students with the very best facilities so that they can pursue their studies in a happy and conducive atmosphere.

The management runs state of the art hostels inside the campus to cater to the needs of the students who are from all over the country and abroad. They are well equipped with all modern amenities and are efficiently administered. They provide right atmosphere for student life and assure safety and security to all students.

Separate Hostels are available for the students of Dental, Paramedical, Engineering, Arts & Science, Education and School. At present more than 10,000 students are accommodated in the hostels. All efforts have been made to serve a wide variety of food to cater to their diverse tastes.

---

# Section: Hostel Facilities

. Common room with television and reading rooms.

. Indoor games like chess & table tennis

· Dry cleaning facilities.

· Uninterrupted power supply

· Telephone facilities.

. The mess attached to the hostel is comparable to any of the International hostel, provided with modern equipment like Dish Washer, Cold room, Bain Marie system, Steam Boiler, Mineral Water plant, Hot Water Boiler, etc.

Modern kitchen equipments have been installed and the food is served with hygienic and sanctified condition. There are separate menu for different students from different States. Special foods are provided to the sick students as per doctor's advice.

## Subsection: MEDICAL SERVICES & HEALTH CARE

The college has a modern, well-equipped 250 bedded Multi-Speciality hospital where students can get excellent medical attention and guidance on health related issues. Super specialities like eye, dental, gynaecology, paediatric & orthopedic are functioning inside the campus. In addition to this, individual hostels are provided with full-time residential doctors. Round the clock ambulance service is also available.

## Subsection: COMMUNICATION CENTRE

STD booths with international call facilities are installed in all the hostels for the benefit of the students to communicate with their parents.

## Subsection: BANKING

Necessary banking facilities are available to the students in the campus itself. They can avail the facilities on all working days. IOB Branch is functioning inside the campus with 4 ATM Centres. Additionaly City Union Bank has 3 ATM Centres, 1 KVB ATM Centre inside the campus.

---

## Subsection: TRANSPORT FACILITIES

Vivekanandha Educational Institutions are operating a fleet of FREE BUSES for easy mobility of the students from different parts of the districts as Namakkal, Erode, Tirupur, Salem, Dharmapuri, Karur, Dindigul and Trichy.

During the Vacation FREE BUSES are operated throughout Tamilnadu to drop and pickup the hostel students from their native places.

## Subsection: CANTEEN AND COOPERATIVE STORE

Six exclusive canteens are available in the campus offering tasty and hygienic food. In order to cater to the needs of all the students from different parts of India and abroad, South Indian, North Indian and Chinese dishes are offered. A modern departmental store is also functioning inside the campus for the benefit of students. Besides, a suggestion Box is kept at prominent places for the students to address their concern.

## Subsection: NSS

The Trust has NSS units under the care of a trained program officer. It undertakes regular social service activities including health care and adult education in the adopted villages.

---

# Section: CENTRALISED PLACEMENT CELL

Recognizing the complexity of the career planning process and the myriad of options available to graduates, the Centralized Placement Cell conducts programmes that offer various services to meet the professional development needs of students. The department partners with students in the process of career management. This starts with self assessment and leads to identifying a career that meets individual goals. Throughout the year, senior executives and alumni from a variety of business participate in scheduled informal discussions on industry and career trends. Well experienced People from Corporate and industry share practical advice and insights gained from their own backgrounds and experiences.

The uniqueness of the training curriculum is that the programme is meticulously planned with a structured and progressive syllabus that facilitates holistic development of the students' personality.

---

# Section: PLACEMENT TRAINING

The Centralised Placement Cell has a unique distinction of establishing within its wings 'ALLWIN CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE' an in-house training facility; comprising well trained and efficient facilitators, capable of inculcating all the necessary skills so that our wards could develop their competency to successfully face the challenges put forth by the Campus Recruitment Drives. Allwin Centre of Excellence actively involves itself with

* Research and Development
* Learning
* Evaluating
* Amending
* Facilitating, Guiding & Motivating
* Fine Tuning

Activities of the department are :

1. Developing verbal and non-verbal communications

2. Enhancing public speaking skills

3. Imparting personality improvement through in-house and external expert faculty Programme

4. Programs Providing career guidance

5. Administering aptitude and psychological tests

6. Conducting group discussions and mock interview practice sessions

7. Organizing entrepreneurship promotion programmes

8. Arranging in-plant training and obtaining project work from industries

9. Assisting for GRE, GMAT and GATE in a simulated environment

10. Arranging on and off campus recruitments

## Subsection: Aims & Objectives : Training

* To train them with employability skills

* To empower them with communicative abilities

* To enrich them with leadership qualities

* To enable them tackle the interviews with ease

* To equip them with life coping skills

* To enable the candidate to land up in the right job

* To get matching remuneration for the work

* To get the right employers for the right candidate

* To enlist and enroll the students for each placement event on first- cum-first served basis

## Subsection: Why Recruit At Vivekanandha Educational Institutions

Companies look for many other qualities besides academic achievements. Vivekanandha Educational Institutions students acquire a range of skills and experiences whilst at Vivekanandha Educational Institutions to compete most effectively. Exposure to teamwork, problem solving, and leadership and communication skills are provided by encouraging the students to take up responsible positions.

* Vivekanandha Educational Institutions is consciously working towards a regime wherein industry's aspirations for recruiting plug and play kind of employees are met by imparting employability skills to the students.

* The education system at our University is highly innovative and has incorporated the best practices followed in Higher education.

* Continuous assessment and organized feedback from students for further improvisation.

* Students are given live projects in the form of business analysis, making new business plans, conducting surveys and encouraging them to take up new entrepreneurial activities.

* The students get entire experience of Industry by way of constant seeding of Industry relevant technologies and skills, Industrial visits, Guest lecturers etc.

* Comprehensive personality development programs, which are in consonance with the expectation of the employers.

* The CPC team at Vivekanandha Educational Institutions prepares students for Campus Placement throughout the year by conducting GD's, Mock interviews, Team work programs etc.

As an integral part of our endeavour in enhancing the prospects of our wards to frame their career, we do reach out to several handpicked institutions through MoUs so that they may pass on their expertise to our aspirants. Over the years the Centralised Placement Cell has been hosting many of these prominent organizations for diverse needs such as :

· Inplant Training

· Industrial Visits

· Guest Lectures

· Seminars & Projects

· Value Added Courses

· Placement Drives

. Faculty Development Programme Skill Development Programme · Placement - Exposure (Company Perspective)

With an aspiration of having a long term understanding vis-à-vis ..

* Campus Recruitment Drives

* Guest Lectures and Webminars

* Industrial Visits

* Technical Workshops.

---

# Section: TCS ACCREDITATION

Vivekanandha College of Engineering For Women, entered into the process of Accreditation with TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES Pvt Ltd. Mr. Pattabhiraman, Head, Accreditation, along with his team, visited Vivekanandha College of Engineering For Women, to interact with the management, staff and the students on the 8th of October 2010. After numerous fruitful meetings, significant discussions and fulfilling interactions with the Members of the Management, Staff and students, the accreditation committee accredited our college on the 25th of October 2010. This has given our students a tremendous boost as far as preparing themselves to face the challenges they will encounter during campus recruitment processes which they choose to attend.

---

# Section:: IBM CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE

With a vision of keeping our staff and our students updated on the latest trends in the ever growing technological concepts, we have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with IBM India Pvt. Ltd., which has found our institutions worthy of being a CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE. IBM has come forward to nominate our students for IBM Career Education Training apart from providing them with latest courseware for their development. Further they have charted a plan for conducting two Seminars every year for wards pertaining to the most up to date technology.

Activities Involved

Students Development Programme

+ Faculty Development Programme + Provision of Software for Training Programme

+ Certification Oriented Training Programme for Faculty & Students

---

# Section:: IRONWOOD CAREERS & TRAINING, AUSTRALIA

Ironwood Careers & Training, a truly international college, where students receive quality education while enjoying Australia's unique culture and lifestyle. Our focus is on making our students employment ready in a rapidly changing world. The training we deliver can help our students to get their first job, go onto further study or upgrade skills to advance their career.

We provide our students with state-of-the-art facilities in the heart of Adelaide and access to educators who are leaders in their field, giving our students gain practical skills which are designed to make them job-ready.

---

# Section: Institute to Industry Collaboration

The demand for professional possessing technical and communication expertise above a good academic track to satiate industrial advancements with their real time projects, has risen significantly. Even though, India's 62.7% of citizen fall in the age group of 15-29 and are privileged to create the highest numbers of highly qualified engineers, professionals and skilled work force, it is the undebatable truth that the availability of ineligible candidates is huge in comparison to the industrial demands. In short Indian market faces a crunch as for as the employable candidates are concerned.

The main objective is to bridge the Industry and the Institutions through creating an opportunity for our students, members of our faculty members and eminent professionals from the industrial world to meet, interact, share thoughts, ideas, solutions and formulate a course of action through faculty development training, pre placement talk, a series of panel discussions and a visit to the corporate world.

---

# Section: INDUSTRIALISTS IMPRESSIONS

## Subsection: Mr. Sujith Kumar, HR, Infosys

This is an amazing place and a great atmosphere to learn 23000 students in one campus is mind boggling. The function was brilliantly organized and the students were simply superb. Best wishes.

## Subsection: Mr. Vignesh Paramasivam, Wall Mart

Everything has been arranged chronologically and planned ... This kind of event deserves a lot of commitment from the Placement Head. We at the organization want to thank you for your efforts. Three cheers for the group.

## Subsection: Mrs. Veeralakshmi, Hexaware Technologies

Students are truly intelligent, self-assured, and committed. Certainly, enjoy your time working on a team that works well together. Visionary Management and Staff. Noble Service for the Society.

## Subsection: Mr. Senthil Kumar, HR, Sanmina

Excellent support and good infrastructure thanks for the support for arranging the facility for the campus drive.

## Subsection: Mr. Anand, Plintron.

Outstanding campus, enthusiastic students & staff .. It is encouraging to observe the College's level of effort & dedication. Pioneer in the vitally essential field of women's education. Outstanding infrastructure.

## Subsection: Mr. M. Elangovan, Tychos Therapeutics (P) Ltd.,

Excellent Campus, Enthusiastic Students & Staff Members. Pioneer in Women Education Which is so important to Society. Great Infrastructure. I am glad to inform that I was a First Batch Alumni of this prestigious Institution.

---

# Section: Alumnae Institutions ...

Being at Vivekanandha I have found myself in responsible position. Here we have ample of opportunities to enhance ourselves and setup trends for upcoming batches. The diversity of course allowed me to discover new ideas. Placement added wings to my Life.

Ms. Yuvethiekasri GV Zoho Corporation ( BE CSE / 2023)

In Microsoft, I interact and work with teams from different variances. The experience at Vivekanandha, with friends from range of cultures, interests and talents prepared me for succeeding in cross-cultural environments throughout my working life. I learnt to appreciate diversity in thoughts.

Ms. Deepika D, Software Engineer, Microsoft (BE ECE / 2013)

It has been very co-operative and the experience during the course was very comfortable and I had been able to fill my Cup of Knowledge. Its my pleasure for being part of this institute.

Ms. Dharsana.M Target Corporation ( BE EEE / 2024)

In the beginning I had a lot of doubts but gradually I started to appreciate our institute. Well furnished classes, labs and everything to cover the needs of the students. After spending so much time here now I feel its a home away from home.

Ms. Pomminifirose.K Hitachi ( BE EEE / 2024)

I owe a large part of whatever I have achieved to Vivekanandha, which equipped me with the knowledge and skills required for my present. I have found that these skills have been invaluable throughout my different responsibilities at TCS. Our institute is ultimately is a confidence booster.

Ms. Bhavya, Software Engineer, TCS (BCA/ 2010)

The Journey with Vivekanandha has inspired me beyond my expectations, making my career goals clearer, more focused, and more realistic. I have learned to face challenges head-on with creative approaches and turn the challenges into opportunities.

Ms. Vidhya Mokan, Software Engineer, Intel (BE ECE/ 2010).

I feel proud to be a part of Vivekanandha for 4 years. Those were the days. I have been made to face the world ans well equiped in a right path. It is the place where a girl can get motivated to succeed in her life.

Ms. Parvathy Varma, Regulatory Labeling Specialist, Johnson & Johnson, USA (B.Pharm 2007)

For Education of Women, Vivekanandha is the most appropriate place to start. I grew as an individual, learning to interact and talk to people from different backgrounds. Vivekanandha has been one of my best decisions ever.

Ms. Anjana Philiph,Albert Pharma, Canada, (B.Pharm / 2004)

---

# Section:  VIDHYA BHAVAN MATRIC HIGHER SECONDARY SCHOOL Pre-KG to XII Co-Ed ( English / Tamil )

Vivekanandha Vidhya Bhavan Matric Higher Secondary School was established in the year 2002. Sponsored by Angammal Educational Trust. It is an incarnation of self respect, love, affection, and compassion which enable the students into a "state of flow" and make them genuinely strive for excellence. Pre-KG to XII Co-Ed (English / Tamil).

## Subsection: MOTTO

Engage

Explore

Enrich

## Subsection: VISION

> To achieve global standard of excellence in education.

> To provide opportunities to the students for holistic development.


## Subsection: MISSION

> To build curiosity in learning, experimenting and inventing.

> To mould them as critical and creative thinkers, collaborators, communicators and trouble shooters.

> To offer a safe, happy environment giving importance to values and life skills.

> To promote self-confidence and develop a sense of responsibility.

> To tap the untapped potential of every child by providing a positive environment which will enable them to become productive and patriotic citizens.

## Subsection: GROUPS OFFERED IN THE HIGHER SECONDARY LEVEL (TAMIL & ENGLISH MEDIUM)

> Physics , Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics

> Physics, Chemistry, Computerscience, Mathematics

> Physics, Chemistry, Botany & Zoology

> Computer App., Economics ,Commerce & Accountancy

> Business Maths, Economics , Commerce & Accountancy

## Subsection: CO - CURRICULAR

+ For Ist to XII standard students Olympiad Programmes like

+ IMO - International Maths Olympiad

+ IEO - International English Olympiad

+ ISO - International Science Olympiad

+ II0 - International Information Olympiad are offered


## Subsection: EXTRA - CURRICULAR

## Subsection: Activities :

Western Dance, Bharatham, Carnatic Music, Drawing, Art & Craft, Karate, Silambam, Archery, Chess, Yoga, Zumba, Computer Education, Spoken English, Spoken Hindi, Spell Bee, Sports, Abacus and Handwriting .

## Subsection: Instruments: Keyboard, Drums, Flute, Piano, Guitar and Violin State / National Level Achievements in Academic, Sports & Cultural.

---

# Section: Facilities

The school environment encourage self discipline, punctuality, performance, and build our students as fore runners in all fields. We also have interesting programmes like "BLP" ( Book lover's programme ) which allow our students to explore in different fields. Word wall, Creativeworld, Speakingcorner, 21st Century Skill enhancement are our innovative inputs for our primary students.

The Science, Computer laboratories, Smart classrooms enhance the skills of students. Sport facilities enable the learners to equip themselves as District, Zonal and National players. Equal importance is given to Co-curricular and Extra curricular Activities (Language Lab, Science Club, G.K, Fine Arts Club and Sports Club). We have ATAL lab to facilitate E-project works.

Teaching learning process is done through - Recitation, Group Discussion, Demonstration, Guest Lecture, Panel discussion, Group reports, Debate, Forum, Data collection, Assignment, Journals, Word Wall, Vocabulary, Research and experiments. Problem Solving techniques, Gaming, Audio Visual-Use of motion pictures, educational films, video tapes, Use of theater, pictures, diagrams, tables, graphs and charts are also used by teachers. Fieldtrips, Drama, Roleplay, Individual projects, Experiments, Puppets, Exhibitions are other avenues of teaching.

All teachers in VVB school are subject experts and are student friendly. We believe that chidren think and learn differently and their intelligence is expressed in a multiple ways. Hence our curriculum has a multifaceted approach to incorporate all intellectual domains.

A home away from home with a hygienic environment for the young ones. Hostel facilities with personal care, ATM, Round the clock health care facility etc., make the students feel at home. RO water facilities and 24 X 7 medical facility are available. Dayscholar Students are provided transport and free lunch facilities.

The concept of Education is redefined here by focusing on personality development with Value Based Education.

"Holistic development focusing on quality education is the need of the hour".

We express our gratitude and appreciate all those souls who contributed in making the school reach its pinnacle of glory.

---

# Section: Highlights of Medical, Naturopathy, Dental, Pharmacy, Nursing, Physiotherapy & Allied Health Science Colleges ( Academic Achievements in Last 3 years )

| Category                  | Value |
|---------------------------|-------|
| Funded Projects           | 25    |
| Seminar Conference Workshop Organized | 1031  |
| Dental Camps              | 600   |
| Paper Presentations        | 492   |
| Student - Seminar Conference Workshop | 360   |
| Continuing Medical Education Programs (CME) | 119   |
| Naturopathy Camps         | 120   |

| Program Type | Count |
|---|---|
| No of Awareness Programs | 155 |
| Medical Orientation Programs | 43 |
| School Health Programs | 93 |
| Health & Wellness Workshops | 32 |
| Paper Publications | 377 |
| Symposium / Project Expo | 106 |

## Subsection: Employment Opportunities

Patents
Granted: 7 / Published: 10

Here's a breakdown of each employment segment:

Dental Surgeon in Govt/Private Hospitals: (Teal Segment)
Production / Packing / QA / QC in Pharma Industry: (Gold Segment)
Drug Inspector / Quality Control, Analyst: (Gold Segment)
Naturopathy Doctor in Govt. Sectors, Private Sectors in India & Overseas: (Gold Segment)
VHN, Staff Nurse in Govt. Sector: (Teal Segment)
Clinical Physiotherapist in Govt/Private Hospitals: (Teal Segment)
Radiology / Dialysis Technician: (Teal Segment)
R&D / ADR Monitoring / Clinical Trials: (Gold Segment)


| Employment Area                               | Sector                                     |
|-----------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| Dental Surgeon                               | Govt/Private Hospitals                   |
| Production/Packing/QA/QC                      | Pharma Industry                           |
| Drug Inspector/Quality Control/Analyst        | -                                        |
| Naturopathy Doctor                           | Govt. Sectors, Private Sectors (India & Overseas) |
| VHN, Staff Nurse                             | Govt. Sector                             |
| Clinical Physiotherapist                      | Govt/Private Hospitals                   |
| Radiology/Dialysis Technician                 | -                                        |
| R&D/ADR Monitoring/Clinical Trials            | -                                        |

---

# Section: Highlights of Engineering, MBA & MCA Courses ( Academic Achievements in Last 3 years )

Best Women's Engineering College in India - 2017 Awarded by ISTE_

AUTONOMOUS

Among the Engineering Colleges Based on Examination Results

33 Gold Medals

Academic Rank Holders

Training, Companies Visited & Placements ( Last Academic Year )

Training Programs Conducted

83

Students Placed

98.5%

98%

98%

Last 3 Academic Years

Engineering Colleges Highlights

Funded Projects ₹ F 2 Crores 80 Lakhs

Staff with Ph.D - 58 Staff Pursuing Ph.D - 50

Patents Granted : 19 / Published : 48

Students Achievements

Paper Presentations

428

Paper Publications

407

International / National Conference

147

Symposium / Project Expo

751

FDPs

310

Workshop / FDPs

291

Seminars / Workshops

1210

Seminars / Workshops

320

Industrial Visits

170

International / National Conferences

127

Book Publications

51

NBA NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCREDITATION

---

# Section: Highlights of Arts & Science Colleges ( Academic Achievements in Last 3 years )

Among the Women's Arts & Science Colleges

Academic Gold Medals


Academic Rank Holders

| Activity                     | Count |
|------------------------------|-------|
| MoU Signed                   | 92    |
| Industrial Tie-ups          | 27    |
| International/National Conferences | 98    |
| Workshops / FDPs            | 491   |
| Industrial Visits           | 306   |

' SWACHHTA' Ranking 2019 of Higher Educational Institutions

Ministry of Human Resource Development
Government of India

---

## Subsection: Students Achievements

| Activity                     | Count |
|------------------------------|-------|
| Paper Presentations          | 1082  |
| Symposium / Project Expo     | 269   |
| Seminars / Workshops        | 3353  |
| International / National Conference | 1819  |
| Ph.D Awarded                | 38    |

- 212

Staff with Ph.D Staff Pursuing Ph.D 80

Patents Published : 41

Funded Projects ₹1.45 Crores

Training Program Conducted

45

Companies Visited

56

Average Salary
Per Year

2.52
Lakhs

## Subsection: Staff Achievements

Paper Publications

1443

FDPs

406

Seminars / Workshops

1902

Book Publications

108

NCBI Depositry

413

National and State Level Awards & Honours

176

---

## Subsection: TRAINING & PLACEMENT

Students Placed

* 90%
* 91%
* 96%

| Academic Year (Implied) | Percentage |
|---|---|
| Year 1 | 90% |
| Year 2 | 91% |
| Year 3 | 96% |

---

# Section: SWAMY VIVEKANANDHA MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL AND RESEARCH INSTITUTE (Co-Ed)

( Approved by National Medical Commission, New Delhi and Affiliated to The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai ).

M.B.B.S - 51/2 Years ( 41/2 Years Academic + 1 Year Internship ) M.D - 3 Years

VIVEKANANDHA MEDICAL CARE HOSPITAL

Elayampalayam, Tiruchengode, Namakkal Dt., Tamilnadu. Phone : 04288 - 224411 & 22, 94890 59111, 7373100100

## Subsection: CT, MRI Scan, ACLS Ambulance (with Life saving Equipments) 24 HOURS 300 BEDDED MULTI SPECIALITY HOSPITAL

Salient Features of Hospital

· Accident & Toxicology Emergency Care

· General Medicine

· Diabetology

· Cardiology & Cardiothoracic Surgery

· Obstetrics & Gynecology

· Orthopaedic Surgery & Arthroplasty

· General & Laparoscopic Surgery

· Paediatrics

· Physiotherapy & Rehabilitation

· Nephrology & Urology

· ENT · Neurology

· Anesthesiology

· Ophthalmology

· Dental Care

· Master Health Check Up

· Obesity & Fitness Center

## Subsection: SWAMY VIVEKANANDHA MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL URBAN HEALTH CENTRE Velore Main Road, Tiruchengode Town, Namakkal Dt., Tamilnadu.

24 Hours Emergency Care / Pharmacy / CT Scan / X - Ray

## Subsection: VIVEKANANDHA DENTAL COLLEGE FOR WOMEN ( Approved by DCI, New Delhi and Affiliated to The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai )

B.D.S 5 Years ( Bachelor of Dental Surgery ) ( 4 Years Academic + 1 Year Internship ) M.D.S 3 Years ( Master of Dental Surgery )

Conservative Dentistry & Endodontics

Orthodontics & Dentofacial Orthopedics

Pediatric & Preventive Dentistry

Prosthodontics and Crown & Bridge

Periodontology

Oral Medicine & Radiology

· Oral & Maxillofacial Pathology & Oral Microbiology

Public Health Dentistry

Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery

## Subsection: SWAMY VIVEKANANDHA NATUROPATHY AND YOGA MEDICAL COLLEGE (Co-Ed)., ( Approved by Directorate of Indian Medicine and Homeopathy Affiliated to The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai )

Attached with 120 Bedded Naturopathy Hospital

BNYS ( Bachelor of Naturopathy and Yogic Sciences ) Course Duration : 5 1/2 years ( 41/2 Years Academic + 1 Year Internship )

## Subsection: VIVEKANANDHA PHARMACY COLLEGE FOR WOMEN SWAMY VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF PHARMACY

( Approved by the Pharmacy Council of India, Affiliated to The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai & Accredited by NBA )

D.Pharm

2 Years

B.Pharm 4 Years

B.Pharm (LE)

3 Years

Pharm.D

6 Years

Ph.D., Full Time / Part Time (Co-Ed)

M.Pharm. Specializations (Co-Ed)

Pharmaceutics

2 Years

Pharmacy Practice

2 Years

Pharmacology 2 Years

Pharm. Analysis

2 Years

Pharm. Chemistry

2 Years

Pharmacognosy

2 Years

---

# Section: VIVEKANANDHA NURSING COLLEGE FOR WOMEN VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF NURSING

( Approved by the INC, New Delhi, The TNNMC, Chennai, DME, Chennai, DPH & PM, Chennai and Affiliated to The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai )

ANM

Diploma in Nursing

3 Years

Child Health (Paediatric Nursing)

B.Sc. Nursing 4 Years

Obstetrics & Gynaecological Nursing

P.Basic B.Sc. Nursing 2 Years

Community Health Nursing Mental Health (Psychiatric Nursing)

SWAMY VIVEKANANDHA PHYSIOTHERAPY COLLEGE (Co-Ed)

( Approved by Health and Family Welfare Department, Govt. of TN Affiliated to The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai )

BPT ( Bachelor of Physiotherapy )

Course Duration : 4 1/2 years

(4 Years Academic + 6 Months Internship )
 
## Subsection: ALLIED HEALTH SCIENCE COURSES (Co-Ed)

( Affiliated to The Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai )

B.Sc. Radiography & Imaging Technology 4 Years

B.Sc. Accident & Emergency Care Technology

4 Years

B.Sc. Cardiac Technology

4 Years

B.Sc. Operation Theatre & Anesthesia Technology 4 Years

B.Sc. Physician Assistant

4 Years

B.Sc. Medical Laboratory Technology

4 Years

B.Sc. Dialysis Technology

4 Years

(3 Years Academic + 1 Year Internship )

## Subsection: KRISHNA INSTITUTE OF OPTOMETRY & RESEARCH (Girls Only)

( Approved by Alagappa University, Karaikudi ).

B.Sc. Optometry - 4 Years Eligibility +2 Pass with Physics, Chemistry & Biology / Botany & Zoology

## Subsection: VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF EDUCATION FOR WOMEN KRISHNA COLLEGE OF EDUCATION FOR WOMEN KRISHNASHREE COLLEGE OF EDUCATION FOR WOMEN RABINDHARANATH TAGORE COLLEGE OF EDUCATION FOR WOMEN VISWABHARATHI COLLEGE OF EDUCATION FOR WOMEN

( Approved by NCTE - Recognized by Govt. of Tamilnadu, Affiliated to Tamilnadu Teachers Education University, Chennai & Accredited by NAAC )

B.Ed., - 2 Years M.Ed., - 2 Years

## Subsection: VIVEKANANDHA VIDHYA BHAVAN MATRIC HIGHER SECONDARY SCHOOL Pre-KG to 12th (Co-Ed)

Groups offered in the Higher Secondary Level for both Tamil & English Medium

Physics, Chemistry, Biology & Maths.

Physics, Chemistry, Maths & Computer Science.

Physics, Chemistry, Botany & Zoology.

Computer App., Economics, Commerce & Accountancy.

Business Maths, Economics, Commerce & Accountancy.

M.Sc. Nursing Specializations 2 Years

2 Years Medical Surgical Nursing\


## Subsection: VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING FOR WOMEN (Autonomous)

( Approved by AICTE-New Delhi, Affiliated to Anna University, Chennai, Accredited by NBA, NAAC, TCS & ISO 9001:2015 Certified Institution )


## Subsection:  UG COURSES (4 Years)

B.E. Computer Science & Engg B.E. CSE - AI & ML*

B.E. Electronics & Communication Engg

B.E. Electrical & Electronics Engg

B.E. Biomedical Engg B.E. Civil Engineering

B.Tech. Information Technology

B.Tech. Biotechnology

B.Tech. Agricultural Engineering

B.Tech. Artificial Intelligence & Data Science

PG COURSES (2 Years)

M.E. Computer Science & Engg. M.E. VLSI Design M.E. Power Systems Engg. M.Tech. Biotechnology


## Subsection:mRESEARCH PROGRAMME

Ph.D - CSE / IT / ECE / EEE / BT / BME / AGRI AI & DS / CIVIL / MECH / ENGLISH / MATHS / PHYSICS / CHEMISTRY.

## Subsection: VIVEKANANDHA INSTITUTE OF INFORMATION AND MANAGEMENT STUDIES ( Approved by AICTE-New Delhi, Affiliated to Anna University, Chennai ). ( Recognized under section 2(f) and 12(B) of UGC Act, 1956 )

## Subsection: PG COURSES

| | |
|---|---|
| MBA | 2 Years |
| MCA | 2 Years |

RESEARCH PROGRAMME Ph.D. Management Studies

Ph.D. Computer Applications

## Subsection: VIVEKANANDHA ARTS & SCIENCE COLLEGE FOR WOMEN VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE FOR WOMEN VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES FOR WOMEN (Autonomous) ( Approved by AICTE, Affiliated to Periyar University, Salem and Re-Accredited by NAAC with 'A+' Grade Recognized under section 2(f) and 12(B) of UGC Act, 1956, ISO 9001:2015 Certified Institution )

## Subsection: UG COURSES

B.C.A

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

B.Sc. Information Technology

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

B.Sc. CS. AI & DS

3 Yrs

B.Sc. CS. Cyber Security

B.Sc. Internet of Things*

B.Sc. Microbiology

B.Sc. Biochemistry

B.Sc. Biotechnology

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

B.Sc. Nutrition & Dietetics

B.Sc. Mathematics

B.Sc. Chemistry

3 Yrs

B.Sc. Textile & Fashion Designing

B.Sc. Costume Design & Fashion

B.Sc. Psychology

B.B.A

B.Com

3 Yrs

B.Com. (CA)

3 Yrs

B.Com. Banking & Insurance

B.Com. Accounting & Finance

B.Com. Professional Accounting

B.Com. E-Commerce*

B.Com. Business Analytics*

B.A. English

B.A. Tamil

B.A. Political Science

3 Yrs

B.A. Economics

## Subsection: PG COURSES

| Course | Duration |
|---|---|
| M.B.A | 2 Yrs |
| M.C.A | 2 Yrs |
| M.Sc. Computer Science | 2 Yrs |
| M.Sc. Microbiology | 2 Yrs |
| M.Sc. Biochemistry | 2 Yrs |
| M.Sc. Biotechnology | 2 Yrs |
| M.Sc. Botany | 2 Yrs |
| M.Sc. Zoology | 2 Yrs |
| M.Sc. Nutrition & Dietetics | 2 Yrs |
| M.Sc. Mathematics | 2 Yrs |
| M.Sc. Physics | 2 Yrs |
| M.Sc. Chemistry | 2 Yrs |
| M.Sc. Costume Design & Fashion | 2 Yrs |
| M.Sc. Applied Psychology | 2 Yrs |
| M.Com. | 2 Yrs |
| M.A. English | 2 Yrs |
| M.A. Tamil | 2 Yrs |

Ph.D ( Full Time / Part Time )

Ph.D (CS) Ph.D Zoology

Ph.D Microbiology Ph.D Physics

Ph.D Biochemistry Ph.D Chemistry

Ph.D Biotechnology Ph.D Commerce

Ph.D Botany

Ph.D English / Tamil

B.Sc. CS. AI & ML

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

B.Sc. Zoology

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

3 Yrs

B.Sc. Computer Science

B.Sc. Data Science

## Subsection: VIVEKANANDHA CENTRALIZED PLACEMENT CELL

Vivekanandha Educational Institutions have carved a niche for itself in the competitive domain in a short period. A testimony to our quality, we have been maintaining successfully high placement statistics over the years and our students bear the recession blues with track records in placement. Our ingenious alumnae have set new standards in the corporate world through their valuable contributions. Of course, it is our firm conviction that we continue that legacy in the years to come.

## Subsection: Vivekanandha Centre for Skill Development

Skill Development is one of essential ingredient for development, we need to re-define the relationship.

Skill Development means developing yourself and your skill sets to add value for the organization and for your own career development.

We provided training for more than 13000 students. We are providing various skill based training programme like value added courses in the following fields :

IT

Finance & Commerce

¢ Banking

Arts & Craft

Textile

Healthcare

Beautician

Fashion Design

Medical Coding

Engineering & Technology

More than

1750 Students Placed in MNC's

## Subsection: SOME OF OUR MAJOR RECRUITERS

Infosys' IBM. Atos | Syntel

Cognizant

amazon

DXC Technology.

HCL

Accenture

City Union Bank

ZIFO RnD SOLUTIONS

Capgemini

## Subsection: PLACED STUDENTS - VIVEKANANDHA EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS FOR WOMEN Engineering 98.5% Arts & Science 96% Paramedical 100%

## Subsection: IAS ACADEMY

Vivekanandha Educational Institutions are not only educating the students with the Degrees but also molding them with additional coaching classes and creating platform to build their future. Students are trained for Competitive Exams like IAS, IPS, TNPSC, TRB, SET, NET, TET, TANCET, GATE, GPAT, CAT Exams, CA, CMA, CS, IBPS ( Bank Exam ) and Railway Exam during their studies for better placements.

Vivekanandha Educational Institutions in association with Vetrii IAS Study Circle, Chennai provides GRADUATION CUM IAS & TNPSC GROUP-I EXAM PROGRAM for 3 years, The objective of this program is to provide opportunity for the students to reach greater heights and become young officers like IAS / IPS - Deputy Collector / DSP with a sense of responsibility towards society.

## Subsection: Our Students Achievement in IAS Exam

Special Training for Tally, CoA, Typewritting, Yoga, Music, Tailoring, Driving & Dance

Knowledge Center : Knowledge center has been established at our institute for the students to update their knowledge in software field by learning additional software course apart from the regular course.

## Subsection: Hostel Facility

Hostel with homely environment ( Home away from Home ).

Safe & Secure Hostels for women, Hygenic, Nutritious & Tasty food.

Spacious rooms with attached bath. « Well equipped Gym.

24hrs Water Supply, Power Supply, Medical Care & Wi-Fi Campus.

## Subsection: Bank Facility

IOB Branch is functioning inside the campus.

Various Bank IOB, CUB & KVB ( 9 ATM Centers ).

## Subsection: Transport Facility

Hostellers : Special buses are operated for hostellers throughout Tamil Nadu and upto the nearest railway station for other state students during monthly holidays.

Dayscholars : Free transport facility daily 240 buses are operated for 8 Dist., ( Erode, Salem, Namakkal, Karur, Dindigul, Trichy, Dharmapuri & Tiruppur ).

---

# Section: AWARDS FOR WOMEN'S EDUCATION ACHIEVEMENT

Our Esteemed Chairman has been conferred with the following honourable awards and Titles.

Vidhya Rathna

Rashtriya Ratan

Hind Rattan

* Life Time Achiever

Achiever in Women Education

Dr. G. Bhujanga Rao, I.A.S. Award

The Kongu Nattu Sadhanaiyalar Award

Best Edupreneur Award

Bharath Excellence Award

Global Entrepreneur Award

Best Pharmacist Award

Former Pro Vice Chancellor of Pondicherry University is presently our Executive Director

Prof. Dr. S. KUPPUSWAMI, B.E., M.Sc., (Engg)., Dr. Ing (France)

## Subsection: தங்கப் பதக்கம் & ரேங்க்குகள்

மகளிர் பொறியியல், மேலாண்மையியல், கல்லூரிகளில் 33 தங்கப்பதக்கங்கள் மற்றும் 135 ரேங்குகள் பெற்று பல்கலைக்கழக தேர்வு முடிவுகளில் சாதனை.

மகளிர் கலை மற்றும் அறிவியல் கல்லூரிகளில் 56 தங்கப்பதக்கங்கள் மற்றும் 419 ரேங்குகள் பெற்று பல்கலைகழக தேர்வு முடிவுகளில் சாதனை.

தமிழ்நாடு டாக்டர். M.G.R. பல்கலைக்கழக தேர்வில் பல் மருத்துவ கல்லூரிகளில் தொடர்ந்து இரண்டு வருடங்களாக தங்கப்பதக்கங்கள் பெற்று சாதனை மற்றும் பார்மஸி, நர்சிங் கல்லூரியில் தங்கப் பதக்கம் பெற்று சாதனை.

தேசிய மற்றும் மாநில அளவிலான விளையாட்டு போட்டிகளில் தங்கப்பதக்கங்கள் பெற்று சாதனை.

தரச்சான்றிதழ்கள்

| Accreditation | Accreditation | Certification | Accreditation |
|---|---|---|---|
| NBA | NAAC | ISO | TCS |
| Accredited | Accredited | Certified | Accredited |

சிறந்த கல்வி நிறுவனத்திற்கான பல்வேறு தரச்சான்றிதழ்களை பெற்ற கல்வி நிறுவனம் (NAAC, NBA, ISO etc., )

பொறியியல் கல்லூரியானது IBM நிறுவனத்தின் Center of Excellence என்ற அந்தஸ்த்தை பெற்றுள்ளது.

பொறியியல் கல்லூரி TCS நிறுவனத்தின் அங்கீகாரம் பெற்றுள்ளது.

## Subsection: வங்கி வசதி

கல்லூரி வளாகத்திலேயே இந்தியன் ஓவர்சீஸ் வங்கி அமைந்துள்ளது.

கல்லூரி வளாகத்திலேயே 9 ATM ( IOB, CUB, KVB) மையங்கள் அமைந்துள்ளது.

## Subsection: மருத்துவ வசதி

கல்லூரி வளாகத்திலேயே அமைந்துள்ள விவேகானந்தா மெடிக்கல் கேர் ஹாஸ்பிட்டல், மருத்துவக்கல்லூரி மருத்துவமனை மூலம் 24 மணிநேர மருத்துவ வசதி.

* CT, MRI ஸ்கேன், ACLS ஆம்புலன்ஸ் ( உயிர்காக்கும் உபகரணங்களுடன்) கூடிய சிறப்பு மருத்துவமனை.

* இம்மருத்துவமனையில் பல் மருத்துவம், கண் மருத்துவம் பொது மருத்துவம், தீவிர சிகிச்சை பிரிவு, இருதய மருத்துவம், நரம்பியல் துறை, சர்க்கரை நோய் பிரிவு, சிறுநீரக சிகிச்சை பிரிவு, மகளிர் மற்றும் மகப்பேறு மருத்துவம், குழந்தைகள் நல மருத்துவம் எலும்பு மூட்டு அறுவை சிகிச்சை, பிசியோதெரபி, இரத்த வங்கி ஆகிய வசதிகள் உள்ளது.

அனைத்து மாணவ, மாணவிகள் மற்றும் பெற்றோர்களுக்கும் விபத்து மருத்துவ காப்பீடு வசதி.

## Subsection: HOSTEL மாணவிகள் விடுமுறை நாட்களில் வீட்டிற்கு சென்று வர பேருந்து வசதி

தொப்பூர், தருமபுரி, காரிமங்கலம், காவேரிப்பட்டினம், போச்சம்பள்ளி, மத்தூர், கிருஷ்ணகிரி, ஓசூர், அஞ்செட்டி, மறகண்டஹள்ளி

---

# Section: பாப்பாரப்பட்டி, பாலக்கோடு, வெள்ளிச்சந்தை, ராயக்கோட்டை, கெலமங்கலம், தேன்கனிக்கோட்டை, ஜவளக்கிரி.

ஈ பாப்பிரெட்டிபட்டி, அரூர், ஊத்தங்கரை, செங்கம், திருவண்ணாமலை, திருப்பத்தூர், ஜோலார்பேட்டை, வாணியம்பாடி, ஆம்பூர், ராயவேலூர், திருத்தனி, ஹனுமான் தீர்த்தம்.

ஈ சின்ன சேலம், கள்ளக்குறிச்சி, சங்கராபுரம், கச்சிராபாளையம், உளுந்தூர் பேட்டை, விழுப்புரம், பண்ருட்டி, மடப்பட்டு

ஈ விருத்தாச்சலம், நெய்வேலி, கடலூர், சிதம்பரம், சீர்காழி, வடலூர், நைனார்பாளையம், வேப்பூர் x ரோடு.

ஈ துறையூர், பெரம்பலூர், அரியலூர். ஜெயம்கொண்டம், கும்பகோணம்.

ஈ முசிறி, திருச்சி, தஞ்சாவூர், மன்னார்குடி, திருவாரூர், நாகப்பட்டினம், பாப்பநாடு, மதுக்கூர், ஒரத்தநாடு, பட்டுக்கோட்டை, முத்துப்பேட்டை, வேதாரண்யம்.

புதுக்கோட்டை, ஆலங்குடி, பேராவூரணி, பொன்னமராவதி, திருப்பத்தூர், பிள்ளையார்பட்டி, காரைக்குடி

மதுரை, திருமங்கலம், சாத்தூர், விருதுநகர், கோவில்பட்டி, ராஜபாளையம், ஸ்ரீவில்லிபுத்தூர், சிவகாசி, திருநெல்வேலி, நாகர்கோவில், மார்த்தாண்டம், வாடிப்பட்டி.\

---

# Section: மானாமதுரை, பரமக்குடி, இராமநாதபுரம்.

திண்டுக்கல், வத்தலக்குண்டு, பெரியகுளம், தேனி, போடி, வருசநாடு, உத்தமபாளையம், சின்னமனூர், கம்பம்.

வேடச்சந்தூர், ஒட்டன்சத்திரம், தாராபுரம், பழனி.

## Subsection: DAYSCHOLAR மாணவிகளுக்கான இலவச பேருந்து வழித்தடங்கள்

நாமக்கல் மார்க்கம் உஞ்சனை, ராயர்பாளையம், மாணிக்கம்பாளையம், வேலகவுண்டம்பட்டி, எர்ணாபுரம், நல்லிபாளையம், சேலம் ரோடு, நாமக்கல், முல்லை நகர், போதுப்பட்டி, காவெட்டிபட்டி, S.P. புதூர், பெரியப்பட்டி, வாழவந்தி, கொண்டிசெட்டிபட்டி, அணியாபுரம், மோகனூர், காட்டுப்புத்தூர், காரைக்குறிச்சி, நத்தமேடு, அரூர், ஒருவந்தூர், சின்னபள்ளிபாளையம், ஆண்டாபுரம், முத்தகாப்பட்டி, அக்கியம்பட்டி, குப்பநாய்க்கனூர், படத்தான்குட்டை, சேந்தமங்கலம், காந்திபுரம், R.P. புதூர், வெண்டாங்கி, காளப்பநாயக்கன்பட்டி, காரவள்ளி, பேளுக்குறிச்சி, பொம்மம்பட்டி, காதப்பள்ளி, கம்பலாய், மருவூர் பட்டி, பொட்டனம், நைனாமலை, திருமலைப்பட்டி, வீசானம், நஞ்சுன்டாம்புரம், கதிரா நல்லூர், புதுச்சத்திரம், புதன்சந்தை, களங்காணி, பெருமாள் கோவில் மேடு, செல்லப்பம்பட்டி, முதலைப்பட்டி, முருகன் கோயில், கூடச்சேரி, பில்லூர் நல்லூர், திண்டமங்கலம், நல்லாகவுண்டம்பாளையம், தளிகை பிரிவு, செருக்கலை, நரவலூர், கொளந்தாபாளையம், சுங்ககரான்பட்டி, பெரியகவுண்டம்பாளையம், கீரம்பூர், கோணூர் கந்தம்பாளையம், கோணூர், கீழ்சாத்தம்பூர், புளியம்பட்டி, வள்ளியப்பன்பட்டி, புதுபாளையம், ராசம்பாளையம்.

துறையூர் மார்க்கம் கொசவம்பட்டி, கூலிப்பட்டி, ரெட்டிப்பட்டி, தூசூர், பெருமாபட்டி, அலங்காநத்தம், பொட்டிரெட்டிபெட்டி, எருமப்பட்டி, வாழசிராமணி, செல்லிப்பாளையம், பண்ணைக்காரன்பட்டி, வரகூர், பவித்திரம், மகாதேவி, ஊரக்கரை, தா.பேட்டை, தோளூர்பட்டி, கண்ணனூர், காருகுடி, மேட்டுப்பாளையம், கரிகாலி, சாலப்பாளையம், பழையபாளையம், திப்பிராமாதேவி, போடிநாயக்கன்பட்டி, ஊத்துவாரி, வடவத்தூர், காவக்காரப்பட்டி, கோணங்கிப்பட்டி பிரிவு, துறையூர்.

முசிறி மார்க்கம் வேப்பண்ணம், புதுப்பட்டி, வளையப்பட்டி, மேய்க்கல்நாய்க்கன்பட்டி, ஏளூர்பட்டி, உடையாளம்குளம் புதூர், செவிந்திப்பட்டி, தொட்டியம், கிளிஞ்சநத்தம், அரங்கூர், அம்மன் குடி, அப்பநல்லூர், கொளக்குடி, பாப்பாபட்டி, கோணப்பம்பட்டி, மகேந்திர மங்கலம், சீனிவாச நல்லூர், மணமேடு, முசிறி, காடுவெட்டி, ஆணைக்கல்பட்டி, பொன்னேரி, சிங்கம்கோம்பை.

ராசிபுரம் மார்க்கம் எலிமேடு, எளச்சிப்பாளையம், கொண்ணையார், வைய்யப்பமலை, சின்னமணலி, பெரிய மணலி, குருசாமிபாளையம், ஆண்டலூர் கேட், ராசிபுரம் பழைய ATC டெப்போ-புதிய பஸ் நிலையம், ராமஜெயம் மில், புதுப்பாளையம், போதைமலை அடிவாரம், குட்டலாடம்பட்டி, கல்லங்குளம், வடுகம், பட்டணம், புதுப்பட்டி, வெள்ளக்கல்பட்டி, பாச்சல், சிங்காளந்தாபுரம், காக்காவேரி, அரியாகவுண்டம்பட்டி, மலையாம்பட்டி, வையப்பமலை, கோக்கலை, ஒடுவன்குறிச்சி, தொப்பம்பட்டி, ஜேடர்பாளையம், குச்சிக்காடு, கொப்பம்பட்டி, இலுப்புலி, முகாசி, பிலப்பாகுட்டை.

சேலம் மார்க்கம் கைலாசம்பாளையம், நெய்காரப்பட்டி, வட்டூர், கருமனூர், மோர்ப்பாளையம், காங்கேயம்பாளையம், செம்பாம்பாளையம், கள்ளுக்கடை, சூரியகவுண்டம்பாளையம், மல்லசமுத்திரம், காளிப்பட்டி, ஆட்டையாம்பட்டி, காக்காபாளையம், வேம்படித்தளம், பெருமாகவுண்டம்பட்டி, இளம்பிள்ளை, காடையாம்பட்டி, இடங்கணச்சாலை, மடத்தூர், சிவதாபுரம், S. பாலம், வீரபாண்டி, அரியானூர், ஏகாபுரம், கொண்டலாம்பட்டி பைபாஸ், கந்தம்பட்டி பைபாஸ், திருவாகவுண்டனூர் பைபாஸ், 3 ரோடு, புதிய பஸ்நிலையம், 5 ரோடு, TPT பாலிடெக்னிக், ஜங்ஷன், ரெட்டிப்பட்டி, புதுரோடு, S. கொல்லப்பட்டி, மாரமங்கலத்துப்பட்டி, K.R. தோப்பூர், இரும்பாலை, நாரஜோதிப்பட்டி, மாமங்கம், கரும்பாலை, கருப்பூர், தட்டான்ஞ்சாவடி, வெள்ளாளப்பட்டி, மூங்கில்பாடி, தேக்கம்பட்டி, செங்கரடு, சப்பையாபுரம், வெண்ணந்தூர், மின்னக்கல், தொட்டிப்பட்டி, வெள்ளைபிள்ளையார் கோவில், அரமத்தாம்பாளையம், சௌதாபுரம், மேட்டு மிஷன், அத்தனூர், அலவாய்ப்பட்டி, கல்கட்டனூர், மல்லூர், நாழிக்கல்பட்டி, கொளஞ்சிபட்டி, பனைமரத்துப்பட்டி, திப்பம்பட்டி, குள்ளம்பட்டி, கோணமடுவு, கூட்டாறு, கம்மாள்பட்டி, திருமனனூர், வேப்பளைப்பட்டி, வெள்ளாளகுண்டம், தாசநாய்க்கன்பட்டி, கெஜல்நாய்க்கன்பட்டி, சீலநாய்க்கன்பட்டி, நெத்திமேடு, அன்னதானப்பட்டி, KS தியேட்டர், பிரபாத், குகை, சேலம் பழைய பஸ்நிலையம், சுந்தர் லாட்ஜ், கலெக்டர் ஆபீஸ், ஆர்ட்ஸ் காலேஜ், வின்சென்ட், அஸ்தம்பட்டி, மணக்காடு, சின்னதிருப்பதி, கன்னங்குறிச்சி, ஏற்காடு அடிவாரம், கொண்டப்பநாயக்கன்பட்டி, ATC நகர், சென்ட்ரல் ஜெயில், சாரதா காலேஜ், பேர்லேண்ட்ஸ், அழகாபுரம், மொஞ்சனூர், பாலமேடு புதூர், பாலப்பட்டி, மதியம்பட்டி, மாமுண்டி, பொரசல்பட்டி, அக்கரபட்டி, மொரங்கம், பேளூர், தும்பல், கொம்பாடிப்பட்டி, சேவம்பாளையம், ராஜாஜி பாலிடெக்னிக் கல்லூரி, புளியம்பட்டி, சித்தர்கோவில்.

ஆத்தூர் மார்க்கம் சீராப்பள்ளி, நாமகிரிபேட்டை, கோனேரிப்பட்டி, தாண்டவராயபுரம், மெட்டாலா, ஈச்சம்பட்டி, மல்லியகரை, கீரிப்பட்டி, மங்களாபுரம், ஆயில்பட்டி, நாகியம்பட்டி, பாலக்காடு, தகரப்புதூர், மூலைபள்ளிப்பட்டி, கோபாலபுரம், ஆத்தூர், காட்டுகொட்டாய், தம்மம்பட்டி, முள்ளுக்குறிச்சி, செந்தாரப்பட்டி, உள்ளிபுரம், கொண்டையம்பள்ளி, மேல்தோம்பை, ஈச்சம்பட்டி, சிங்கிளியம்கோம்பை, பொன்னாரம்பட்டி, சிங்கிபுரம், கோம்பை, சார்வாய்.

வாழப்பாடி மார்க்கம் TMS செட், அம்மாபேட்டை, பொண்ணம்மாபேட்டை, ஜோதி தியேட்டர், மில்டரி ரோடு, அயோத்தியாப்பட்டினம், வீரணம், வலசையூர், சுக்கம்பட்டி, குப்பனூர், அக்ரஹாரம், கூட்டாத்துப்பட்டி, உடையாபட்டி, விலாம்பட்டி, பனைமடல், ஏத்தாப்பூர், நீர்முள்ளிகுட்டை, மின்னாம்பள்ளி, காரிப்பட்டி, மேட்டுப்பட்டி, சேசன் சாவடி, வாழப்பாடி, கிருஷ்ணாபுரம், வைத்தியகவுண்டன் புதூர், புத்திரகவுண்டாம்பாளையம், பெத்தநாயக்கன்பாளையம், நரசிங்கபுரம், எடப்பட்டி.

தருமபுரி மார்க்கம் தங்காய்யூர், கொங்கணாபுரம், கச்சுப்பள்ளி, எட்டிக்குட்டை மேடு, சின்னப்பம்பட்டி, தாரமங்கலம், ஓமலூர், கமாலாபுரம், தீவட்டிப்பட்டி, டேனிஷ்பேட்டை, பெத்தேல் மருத்துமனை, வடுகப்பட்டி, தொப்பூர், நல்லம்பள்ளி, அதியமான் கோட்டை, தர்மபுரி, தொளசம்பட்டி, ஓலைப்பட்டி, சரக்குபுலியூர், முத்தம்பட்டி, செலவடை, பெரிய சோரகை, பஞ்சுகாளிப்பட்டி, ரங்கம்பாளையம், வங்காளியூர், முத்தநாயக்கன்பட்டி, பாலகுட்டப்பட்டி, சிந்தாமணியூர், பல்பாக்கி, அமரக்குந்தி.

சங்ககிரி மார்க்கம் சங்ககிரி, RTO ஆபீஸ், VN பாளையம், கெமிக்கல்பிரிவு, வைகுந்தம், நாய்க்கன் வலசு, இருகாலூர், வடுகப்பட்டி, ICL, வேலம்மா வலசு, பச்சாம்பாளையம், மங்காரம்பாளையம், முனியப்பன் கோவில், வைகுந்தம், காளிப்பட்டி பிரிவு, சங்ககிரி காலேஜ், கிடையூர்.

எடப்பாடி மார்க்கம் வீரப்பம்பாளையம், பால்வாய், கிடையூர், கேட்டுக்கடை, வெள்ளாண்டி வலசு, எடப்பாடி, கள்ளுக்கடை, சித்தூர், புளியம்பட்டி, பூலாம்பட்டி, தருமல், மூலக்கடை, ஜலகண்டபுரம், நங்கவள்ளி, வனவாசி, குஞ்சாண்டியூர், திப்பரத்தான்பட்டி, சிந்தாமணியூர், பொறையூர், பொட்னேரி, மல்லிகுந்தம், கூணான்டியூர், மேச்சேரி, குக்கல்பட்டி, காளிகவுண்டனூர், வெள்ளார் எருமப்பட்டி, வேட்டுவபட்டி, புதுப்பட்டி, சிலுவம்பாளையம், மூலப்பாதை, ஏ.ஆர். செட்டிபட்டி, தேவூர், செட்டிப்பட்டி, ஓடசக்கரை, வெள்ளரிவெள்ளி,

மேட்டூர் மார்க்கம் கேசரி மங்கலம், சித்தார், மாணிக்கம்பாளையம், சிங்கம்பேட்டை, அம்மாபேட்டை, 3 ரோடு, குட்ட முனியப்பன் கோவில், நெரிஞ்சிப்பேட்டை, செக்கணூர் பேரேஜ், மாதையன் குட்டை, ICH மேட்டூர் சர்ச் கார்னர், சின்னபார்க், மேட்டூர் பஸ் நிலையம், மூலக்காடு, கொளத்தூர், பண்ணவாடி, புது வேல மங்களம், கருங்கலூர், கோவிந்தம்பாடி, கத்தரிப்பட்டி, செட்டிபட்டி, RC பிளான்ட், ராம் நகர், புதுச்சாம்பள்ளி, கருமலைகூடல், தங்கமாரிப்பட்டினம், கார்கூடல் பட்டி, சேலம் கேம்ப், தொட்டில் பட்டி, கஷபுரம், சின்னக்கலூர்.

பவானி மார்க்கம் வட்டமலை, வளையக்காரனூர், கத்தேரி பிரிவு, ராஜம் தியேட்டர், ஆனங்கூர் கார்னர், KON தியேட்டர், கௌரி தியோட்டர், லட்சுமி நகர், காளிங்கராயன்பாளையம், அந்தியூர் பிரிவு, பூலப்பாளையம், பெரியபுலியூர், பிரம்மதேசம், இரட்டைகரடு, பருவாச்சி, அந்தியூர், மூலக்கடை, குறிச்சி, பூணாச்சி, பூதப்பாடி, ஜம்பை, ஆப்பக்கூடல், அத்தானி, கீழ்வாணி, TN பாளையம், குருவரெட்டியூர், மைலம்பாடி, ஒலகடம், வெள்ளித்திருப்பூர், சென்னம்பட்டி, தேவனாங்குறிச்சி, வெப்படை, அம்மாபேட்டை, லட்சுமி நகர், தெற்குபாளையம், ரங்கம்பாளையம், 4ரோடு, எலந்தகுட்டை, ஒட்டமெத்தை, அக்ரஹாரம், ஆவத்திப்பாளையம், குப்பாண்டாபாளையம், MGR நகர், குமாரபாளையம், பாதரை, குட்டிப்பாளையம், பி. மேட்டுப்பாளையம், கிரேஸ் ஸ்கூல், பிரம்மதேசம், பருவாச்சி (அம்மாபாளையம்), கவின்கேர், சின்னவடமலபாளையம், சிந்தா கவுண்டம்பாளையம், தவுட்டுப்பாளையம், ஜீவா செட், கரட்டுப்பாளையம், அந்தியூர் காலனி, பாலக்குட்டை, மந்தை, சுக்கநாயகனூர், கோவியூர், மூடக்கடை, மாத்தூர், மரவப்பாளையம், மூங்காத்தூர், கண்ணாமூச்சி, கிட்டாம்பட்டி.

ஈரோடு மார்க்கம் கூட்டப்பள்ளி, SPB காலனி, ஓடப்பள்ளி, பாப்பம்பாளையம், பள்ளிபாளையம், கருங்கல்பாளையம், ஈரோடு பஸ் நிலையம், சூரம்பட்டி 4 ரோடு, ரங்கம்பாளையம், வெள்ளோடு, சென்னிமலை, PS பார்க், கொல்லம்பாளையம், மூலப்பாளையம், 46 புதூர், ரகுபதிநாய்க்கன்பாளையம், பேட்டை, அவல்பூந்துறை, அரச்சலூர், கந்தசாமிபாளையம், நத்தக்காடையூர், காங்கயம், சோலார், சாவடிபாளையம், கணபதிபாளையம், சோளங்கபாளையம், பஞ்சலிங்கபுரம், கருமாண்டம்பாளையம், கொளாநல்லி, வெள்ளோட்டாம்பரப்பு, பாசூர், ஒத்தகடை, தாமரைப்பாளையம், கோட்டை காட்டுவலசு, லக்காபுரம், மொடக்குறிச்சி, எழுமாத்தூர், விளக்கேத்தி, தாண்டாம்பாளையம், சிவகிரி, முத்தூர், வெள்ளகோயில், நசியனூர், காஞ்சிக்கோயில், திங்களூர், சம்பத்நகர், நாராயணவலசு, மாணிக்கம்பாளையம் ஹவுசிங் யூனிட், வெட்டுக்காட்டு வலசு, கைகாட்டி வலசு, வீரப்பம்பாளையம்.

திருப்பூர் மார்க்கம் பழையபாளையம், கலெக்டர் ஆபீஸ், திண்டல், மேட்டுக்கடை, பெருந்துறை, சீனாபுரம், குன்னத்தூர், விஜயமங்கலம், பெருமாநல்லூர், பூலுவபட்டி, நெசவாளர் காலனி, புஸ்பா தியேட்டர், குமார் நகர், SAP தியேட்டர், அனுப்பர்பாளையம், மங்களம் ரோடு, ரயில்வே கேட் 1 & 2, ரயில்நிலையம், மன்னரை, கூலிப்பாளையம் நால்ரோடு, கவுண்டம்பாளையம் நால்ரோடு, ஊத்துக்குளி RS, ஊத்துக்குளி, அவிநாசி, பூண்டி, திருப்பூர் பழைய & புதிய பஸ்நிலையம், பெரியபாளையம், தென்னம்பாளையம், கோவில் வழி, போயம்பாளையம்.

கோபி மார்க்கம் திருநகர் காலனி, வீரப்பன்சத்திரம், CNC காலேஜ், சூளை, K. குளம், அருள்வேலன்பாளையம், தண்ணீர்பந்தல் பாளையம், மாமரத்துப்பாளையம், கொங்கம்பாளையம், சித்தோடு, செட்டிபாளையம், கவுந்தப்பாடி, சூரியம்பாளையம், ஒத்தகுதிரை, வெள்ளாளபாளையம், புலவகாளிபாளையம், தயிர்பாளையம், கோபி, கள்ளிப்பட்டி பிரிவு, நம்பியூர், நல்லகவுண்டம்பாளையம், கரட்டிப்பாளையம், சத்தியமங்கலம், லட்சுமி தியேட்டர், அசோகபுரம், நட்டராயன் கோவில், BP அக்ரஹாரம், பல்லாகாட்டூர், RN புதூர், பெருமாள்மலை, சேவக்காட்டு பாளையம், குருமந்தூர், கொடிவேரி.

கரூர் மார்க்கம் வேலாயுதம்பாளையம், புகளூர் 4 ரோடு, செம்படபாளையம், தோட்டக்குறிச்சி, தளவாபாளையம், கடம்பன் குறிச்சி, கோவில்பாளையம், பெரியகாளியப்பாளையம், வாங்கல், மண்மங்கலம், வெங்கமேடு, சர்ச்கார்னர், SP காலனி, வாங்கப்பாளையம், வெண்ணைமலை, கரூர் பஸ் நிலையம், லைட் ஹவுஸ், காந்தி கிராமம், தான்தோன்றிமலை, புலியூர், லட்சுமணன்பட்டி, பழைய ஜெயம்கொண்டம், லாலாபேட்டை, கிருஷ்ணராயபுரம், மாயனூர், குஜிலியம்பாறை, பாளையம், கூடலூர், கோவிலூர், தடாகோவில், ஜெகதாபி, காளியப்பனூர், திருமணலியூர், வெள்ளியணை, வெள்ளைப்பாறை, பஞ்சமாதேவி, திருமுக்கூடலூர், வையாபுரி நகர், விஸ்வநாதபுரி, அணைப்பாளையம், தண்ணீர்பந்தல், ஆண்டான்கோயில், வடிவேல் நகர், மூலிமங்கலம், முல்லை நகர், ராமனூர், தெரசா நகர், ஆயுதப்படை, சோமுர், அரசு காலனி, அண்ணா வலவு, தவிட்டுபாளையம், பாலத்துறை, சுங்ககேட், TNPL Colony, கிரஷர் மேடு, க.பரமத்தி, நத்தமேடு, குந்தானிபாளையம், நொய்யல் குறுக்குசாலை, மூர்த்திபாளையம், புண்ணம்சத்திரம், ஒத்தமந்தாரை, வெங்கம்மா கூடலூர், நாவல் நகர், கொங்கு நகர், அரவக்குறிச்சி, சின்ன தாராபுரம், வேலுச்சாமிபுரம், ரெட்டிபாளையம், ஆத்தூர் பிரிவு, பள்ளப்பட்டி, ஈசாநத்தம், சோழதாசன்பட்டி, சத்திரப்பட்டி, கூம்பூர், சனப்பட்டி ரயில்வே ஸ்டேஷன்.

வேலூர் மார்க்கம் மணப்பள்ளி, பாலப்பட்டி, நஞ்செய் இடையார், வேலூர், பரமத்தி, சூரியம்பாளையம், கந்தம்பாளையம், காந்தி ஆசிரமம், மேலிப்பள்ளி, புதுப்பாளையம், சித்தாளந்தூர், போக்கம்பாளையம், வெங்கமேடு, பொத்தனூர், பாண்டமங்கலம், பாமகவுண்டம்பாளையம், ஜேடர்பாளையம், ஜமீன் எளம்பிள்ளை, கொத்தமங்கலம், சோழசிராமணி, பெருங்குறிச்சி, குப்பிரிக்காப்பாளையம், கபிலர்மலை, கொண்டரசம்பாளையம், கொளகாட்டு புதூர், பெருமாமலை, மொளசி, பட்லூர், இறையமங்கலம், கொக்கராயன்பேட்டை, அம்மாசிபாளையம், ஆண்டிப்பாளையம், கொல்லப்பட்டி, வாலைரகேட், CHB காலனி, போலீஸ்ஸ்டேஷன், தி.கோடு பழைய பஸ்நிலையம், சேலம் ரோடு கார்னர், MLA STOP, அடிவாரம், மண்டகப்பாளையம், கொசவம்பாளையம், குமாரமங்கலம்.

_' Vidhya Rathna ' Prof. Dr. M. KARUNANITHI B.Pharm., M.S., Ph.D., D.Litt., Chairman and Secretary_

---

# Section: The Architect of VIVEKANANDHA EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS., an Eminent Educationist with profound experience and unique vision.

## Subsection: VIVEKANANDHA EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS

## Subsection:TIRUCHENGODE CAMPUS

* SWAMY VIVEKANANDHA MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL AND RESEARCH INSTITUTE

* VIVEKANANDHA DENTAL COLLEGE FOR WOMEN

* SWAMY VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF PHARMACY

* VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF NURSING

* VIVEKANANDHA SCHOOL OF ANM

* SWAMY VIVEKANANDHA PHYSIOTHERAPY COLLEGE

* VIVEKANANDHA ALLIED HEALTH SCIENCE COLLEGE

* KRISHNA INSTITUTE OF OPTOMETRY & RESEARCH

* VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING FOR WOMEN (AUTONOMOUS)

* VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY FOR WOMEN

* VIVEKANANDHA INSTITUTE OF INFORMATION AND MANAGEMENT STUDIES

* VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES FOR WOMEN (AUTONOMOUS)

* VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE FOR WOMEN

* VIVEKANANDHA COLLEGE OF EDUCATION FOR WOMEN

* KRISHNA COLLEGE OF EDUCATION FOR WOMEN

* KRISHNASHREE COLLEGE OF EDUCATION FOR WOMEN

* VIVEKANANDHA VIDHYA BHAVAN MATRIC HIGHER SECONDARY SCHOOL

* VIVEKANANDHA MEDICAL CARE HOSPITAL (VMCH)

## Subsection: SANKAGIRI CAMPUS

* SWAMY VIVEKANANDHA NATUROPATHY AND YOGA MEDICAL COLLEGE

* VIVEKANANDHA PHARMACY COLLEGE FOR WOMEN

* VIVEKANANDHA NURSING COLLEGE FOR WOMEN

* VIVEKANANDHA ANM SCHOOL

* VIVEKANANDHA ARTS AND SCIENCE COLLEGE FOR WOMEN

* RABINDHARANATH TAGORE COLLEGE OF EDUCATION FOR WOMEN

* VISWABHARATHI COLLEGE OF EDUCATION FOR WOMEN

---

## Subsection: Tiruchengode Campus

Viveknanandha Educational Institutions

Elayampalayam, Tiruchengode, Namakkal District, Tamilnadu, on either side of the Erode - Namakkal state highway.

Mobile : 94437 34670, 99655 34670

## Subsection: Sankagiri Campus

Vivekanandha Educational Institutions Veerachipalayam, Sankagiri, Salem District, Tamilnadu, along Salem - Kovai Express highway. Mobile : 94425 34564, 97888 54417

## Subsection: Tiruchengode Campus

Google Maps

VIVEKANANDHA EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS Tiruchengode - 637 205, Namakkal Dt., & Sankagiri - 637 303, Salem Dt., Mobile : (0)94437 34670, (0)99655 34670

Web : www.vivekanandha.ac.in

email : admission@vivekanandha.ac.in

---
